<!-- variant: earlier draft -->
First of all, happy mothersday. We have a nice little gift for you mothers up here. If we could have the kids pass those out that would be great. Most churches will spend mothers day, or fathers day talking about fathers or mothers. We’ve not really been great about doing that, and we definitely won’t be today. Not really. We committed to reading through the bible together in the next year last week, and because when we sign our names to something we tend to take them more seriously, we had a sign up sheet for those who committed to reading along side us. It will be up here on the alter after the end of the service. 

 I’ll be preaching on a passage out of this week, or next weeks readings right along with the yearly plan, so when you get bogged down in a chapter full of names, remember me in your prayers. There is value in every chapter. Every chapter is worth reading. But some are going to be more difficult than others. You’re not alone in that. 


As we get started, I have a couple questions for you - How is your reading going? Any weird passages? Anything you’re struggling with? Feel free to ask me. Did you guys read genesis 6? Weird isn’t it? Seems like that could be something that led to the rise of the greek pantheon of false god’s. Wouldn’t that be something to believe a thing your whole life, only to get to eternity and find out you’d been worshiping demons all along? Praise God we have the truth directly from God in this book. Amen? 

Alright, so were going to be in genesis chapter 11 this week, genesis chapter 11. 

This is a story most of us are familiar with. The story is the tower of babel. While you’re turning there I learned a couple of neat things this week. You know the pyramids of Egypt? I’d like to go see those one day. But those great works of the ancient world were based on something. As we will read in our passage today, humanity was traveling west from the east. Egypt is west of the land that these early humans decide to settle in. They hadn’t yet made it to Egypt. They had however started making early types of the pyramids called ziggarauts. They were a Large first floor with slanted sides, with a smaller second floor, a smaller still third floor and a tiny room at the top. They frequently had three stair cases, one from the east, one from the west, and one from the south. The east west stairs usually started on the ground, and brought you to the first floor roof, and the south stairs started on the ground floor as well, and took you to the second floor where they had smaller stair cases to get to the remaining floors. But the size of these stairs compared to the rest of the building was striking. 

These ziggarauts were made from bricks that they made using mud and slime, and allowing them to dry in the sun. These people were the first to make pyramids, but they were not the first, or last to sin in a very specific way. Remember last week we talked about joy

Alright are well all there? One more thing before we read the passage today, I want to give you a ten dollar word, and hopefully some tools for reading the bible. For starters always pray before you start. Ask God for guidance, and to help you understand what He – what God – is trying to say to you today through his word. 

The tools are some preachers are trained to use for writing sermons as well. Lets start with the word – Hermeneutics. Hermeneutics is the English word for the study of scripture. It literally means to squeeze the meaning out of God’s word. If you were to soak a towel, and grab it by both ends and twist to squeeze all the life saving living water out of that towel, so that you could drink as much of it down as possible, that’s in a nutshell what hermeneutics means. 

One of the way we do that is by studying the context(s) of the passage. The culture of the day, the geography, the history, the philosophy, all inform the writers and their holy spirit guided use of their language. For instance, if someone said that’s bad in the 1950s – people would assume the word meant something negative had happened. But if you said bad in the 1990s people would assume you were talking about a good thing. So one of the things preachers do is study the language, and how its used at that period of time. That is informed by the various contexts – historical, cultural, language, etc. I have a personal library to help me do that, its harder for those who don’t. But you can definitely study the context of the verse you’re reading. If the bible says “God and do likewise” without the context of that command, without knowing what you were to do, you could get yourself in trouble. So read the context. 

Finally, ask a lot of questions about the text, and if you can’t figure out the answers then look them up, or ask me, I’ll help you as much as I can. I may not have the answer off hand, but I can look the answers up. 

Here is a short list of questions that are good to ask. Some of them are obvious, some less so:
1. How does this passage fit into the big picture of scripture? 
2. Does the passage talk about Christ, can we see where this passage is pointing to Christ?
3. How can I apply this? Is there a sin to forsake? A principle to adopt? A behavior to change in my life?
4. Ask the whats – what does it say, now what should I believe, and finally so what does this mean for how I live my life. 

That’s a good start there are more, and I’ll try to bring some more about how to better understand what you’re reading each week. But for now, lets read the bible.  

Look with me at vs 4, (read) do you notice anything that reminds you of eve last week? What did she do? She thought she knew better. She did what seemed good in her own eyes, to benefit herself. She and Adam right afterwards, put herself first, they in several ways tried to take the role of God. That backfired then, and it backfires here too. 

Where is their focus here? Just in this one verse, the first time they’ve spoken in this chapter they talk about themselves what? Five times? In just the one verse. They were focused on what they wanted, what seemed good to them, what seemed good in their eyes. They were focused on themselves and not on God. 

When Adam and Eve did that, they were kicked out of the garden. What happens here? When God finally decides to act, they are scattered. Can you imagine the chaos. One minute you’re talking to people in your own language, and the next minute now you’re speaking german, or greek, or French. Its probably worth mentioning that whatever language they spoke at this point, the mother language so to speak, is what some think will be the language of heaven. No way to prove that one way or the other. In any event we know from other Ziggurats that were built in the centuries that followed in that valley that the tiny room at the top contained an alter where children were sacrificed. There was a metal idol, that would be heated till it glowed red, and then children would be dropped inside. The children were being murdered in an effort to manipulate their god(S) into doing what they wanted. 

Just in case anyone wasn’t clear, sacrificing children is always evil. Full stop. Never is that ok. That will not Get you want you want from God. Not now, not ever. They aren’t a tool to use in manipulation, they are a vulnerable treasure to protect. 

Their fear was that they would be scattered. So they began to build this tower upon which to offer human sacrifices in an effort to manipulate God so they could get what they wanted, when they wanted, because a thing looked desirable to the eye, but what did they get in the end? The very thing they feared. 

There is a movement out there that seeks to do just that. Lots of churches are swallowed up in it. They believe they can basically do what they want, and then when they find themselves in trouble, or lacking an earthly luxury they can just speak it into reality. They believe so long as they ask in faith, they get what they want. I have a family member wrapped up in this. They are missionaries to an island nation. They wrote a letter home one time saying that they believed they deserved a yellow Volkswagen beatle. But if you’ve heard me preach before you know what the bible says about what man deserves. We only deserve one thing, and its not a shiny new yellow Volkswagen beatle. Its like they see God as a cosmic vending machine. Insert prayer, receive prosperity, wealth, and comfort. 

The problem much broader than the word of faith movement too. How many people out there have you known that would live like they wanted through the week, and ignored God till they wanted something. How is that approach any better than what we’ve read tonight. Are you not trying to bargain with God, to purchase God’s intervention in your life, one might say to manipulate God into doing your will? We so easily get it backwards. We are to obey God’s will, not the other way around. 

This reminds me of my dog Grace. Its been a while since we’ve had a dog story. I have a Catahoula leopard dog. I absolutely adore the breed, but they are a handful and not the breed for everyone. She’s strong willed, and quick to try and take charge of the situation for better or worse. Usually for worse. You see my dog can’t see or understand as much of the world as I can. She reminds me in a lot of ways of how God must see us. So a few years ago, before Grace passed away, we got some new sheep. Grace saw part of her job as protecting us from interlopers. She was very protective of me especially. She was fiercely loyal. Any way, we bring these two new cute fluffy sheep home. One was colored like a cow. She was cool looking. The other had great genetics, and I had put a lot of hope in these two sheep improving our flock of sheep. 

Any way, Grace to this point had no issues with any sheep, we trusted her outside with them. We let her run around, they weren’t sure what to think of her, but I think she’d have protected them like any one else she considered to be part of her family. 

Any way, she must not have gotten the memo that these sheep were family. A couple days after we got them, we had them out wandering the yard. Grace saw them as interlopers and ran right over and killed them. She ran back up to us, so proud of herself for protecting us from danger. She got in a lot of trouble for that. 

She had obeyed her will, instead of mine. She had done what she thought would please us, instead of what would have actually pleased us. 

We do the same thing with God! When we don’t know his will, when we aren’t reading his word, we end up doing what we think is right, and without first talking to God, sometimes we end up doing what seems right in our own eyes, and hurting God’s sheep. 

Or worse, we treat God like a vending machine. I don’t know about you guys, but there are things in my life that I’ve prayed for, that would not have been a benefit to me in the long run. We’ve talked about this before, but you remember the song “that god for unanswered prayers?”. In the song, he meets up with a girl he’d once loved and introduces her to his wife. Says she was the girl he’d gone to bed praying God would let him marry one day. But that compared to his wife, the one God had in mind for him, she was nothing special. Then he thanks God for unanswered prayers. Sometimes the best answer God can give us to our prayers is no. Because like my dog, we have a limited view and understanding of things around us. Even our best and brightest only know a tiny thimble full about existence compared to God. Much less the future. Much less what is best for us. We may think we know, but because we can’t see beyond the next rise we really don’t. But God can. 

So if we were to look at some of those same questions we talked about earlier – what does the bible say “men tried to manipulate God, to obey their will. In exchange God allowed them to experience what they were trying to avoid”. So then what do we believe – we believe that God knows better than us. That God can see further than us. That he is better capable of understanding the things that he sees, and responding to our prayers in ways that are better than we can even ask for. That a no from God is often better than him saying yes to our prayers. What about the final what then? In light of all this what does this mean for how I live my life?  Any one?

But it all starts with the gospel! 

As the praise team comes up here, maybe you’ve realized you were treating God like a vending machine. Running from God unless you had a problem, and then putting in a prayer, and expecting a yellow Volkswagen beatle. Maybe you noticed that you’ve been more like my dog at times. She thought she had done something really good in killing my sheep. Protecting her family. But was it good? Or maybe to this point you’ve never come to a place where you’ve asked God to pay the price for your sins. Todays the day. 

At this point too, if you haven’t signed the commitment to read through the bible in a year, here is the commitment, I signed my name right at the top. I hope you’ll sign this too. Won’t you come? 