# The Price of Integrity

I had an experience in the grocery store this week that triggered my thinking on this subject. I was at the grocery store – and tucked in behind the powdered Gatorade was an envelope. Curiosity got the better of me, and I opened the envelope to find it contained 3 100$ bills. I instantly started spending it in my mind. Motorcycle endorsement 175$, get grace spayed, 125. OH OH OR I could get two new tires to replace two of my four bald ones. Praise God for his provision. But then I thought, surely someone is looking for this cash. If I lost that amount of money I'd be in a panic. That's probably pretty close to someones entire pay check. So I walked around for a little bit trying to figure out what to do. I finally decided to keep the amount secret but leave my name and number at customer service, and if anyone came looking for lost money and could name the amount and size of the bills, I'd happily give it back. So I head over to the counter, and get In line. Customer service at winn dixie is also the line for the lotto. I waited and waited, and while I'm waiting I notice this girl in front of me carrying a toddler in each arm is crying. The kids were clean and well maintained in new clothes, but she was wearing faded, stained clothing that had clearly been given to her by an older, larger woman. I thought to my self, oh no – its probably hers. Sure enough when she got to the customer service counter she asked if anyone had turned in a little white envelope with a small heart on it. She went on to say that it contained 300 dollars cash that her mother had given her for groceries. I pulled the envelope out and sure enough it had a little hand drawn heart on the back. She continued saying that her fiancé and the father of her children had just been incarcerated for the next year, and that was all the cash she had to make ends meet, it was grocery money, the balance of her rent, and had to cover diapers for the next few weeks too until she could find a job. I pulled the envelope out of my pocket and handed it to her. As useful as it would have been, as tight as things are financially, my integrity was worth more than 300$.

A friend of mine at seminary had a story about integrity too. He and his wife were on a budget, and they wanted a porch swing for cheap date nights. They watched and saved, waited for the right sale at the right time. Scrimped and saved. Finally had about a hundred dollars and the swings went on sale at lowes. They had strict decoration rules at their place – only a single wreath, no lights on the outside of the buildings, so they'd have to set it up and take it down every time they wanted to use it. He gets to the checkout lane. Lady tried to teach him how to scam lowes out of 18 cents. The box only came with 10 bolts, needed 12. He thanked her profusely, and put a quarter on the counter and started off towards hardware to find the two bolts he needed. She stopped him immediately. He was confused. She said no no no, take it home. Put it together, and tomorrow when you're short two bolts come back in, demand to speak to the manager, and he will give you two free bolts. Whats more she said, you really need to stain this thing if its going to last, and so here's what you do! Go buy the biggest container of stain that we offer. Buy the largest container of sealer that we offer. VERY VERY carefully open the lid, and then stain, and seal your swing. Put the lid back on, and return them both to the store. No one will know the difference and you'll get your 25$ back on the pair.

25$ was a pretty decent amount of money, and could mean an extra date night! He paused for a moment, thanked the woman for her kindness and left. He never did return the stain and sealer though, he remembered his fathers words that had been pounded into him nearly all his life with the amount changing to meet the situation. His father would say "your integrity is worth more than 25$."

I was aquainted with a guy a number of years ago, who had more discretionary spending money than he knew what to do with. His father was stinking rich, and this kid liked to throw the fact he had money in peoples faces. I met him through Jeffery Whalen if that tells you anything about this self professed homosexual teenager. He liked to tell us just how much money he had, and what sort of exotic things they'd be doing, or eating, or seeing. Who knows how much money this kid actually had, or whether he did any of these things he claimed. The point is one evening this kid brought up the cost of a mans integrity. He said for the right amount of money I can buy any man and make him do what I want. Being a teenager myself I said that would be impossible. He said ok, fine. I'll give you a million dollars to drink out of that pond. Not believing he had that kid of money I declined. He didn't try again. The next time I saw him, he offered me 5 million dollars to lick jeff's foot. I refused. I never saw the kid again. But I think if I had he would have tried to offer me more money to do something else ridiculous and gross. Honestly if he had had the cash in a briefcase I probably would have drank a single sip of the water in the pond. I just didn't believe that even if his dad did have the kind of money he claimed, that he'd have access to, and be able to give away that amount of money on something so foolish. I figured if I drank the pond water, I'd end up with a weird parasite for my trouble, and no money. I doubt I would lick anyones foot for any amount of money. But let me ask you this – what is the price of your integrity?

## Integrity Defined

Everyone has heard the word integrity. Especially leading up to an election. So and so has it, so and so doesn't. we toss it around like crazy but did you know that it is one of the most commonly looked up words in the English language? Websters dictionary says integrity means being whole, undivided and morally upright. For our purposes we are going to define it as "doing the right thing regardless of the cost". If the only thing you take from tonight is that you need to be more moral, than I've failed. Yes morality is the end result but it needs to begin with salvation – we need God to transform us. We need him to renew our hearts and minds. He gives us a desire for righteousness. He helps us place a priority on holiness and purity. We want to be whole, undivided and morally upright because of Christ!

## Joshua 9:1–27

Our scripture today is in Joshua 9:1-27 – So these men acted with cunning scripture said. You see they told Joshua that they were from far far away. They went through a lot of trouble to further this ruse. They baked bread and left it outside in the desert. I have this mental picture of them buying the clothes beggars were wearing. Taking dirt baths, buying old wine skins and filling them with new wine so their skins would burst. The found old busted equipment. Fixed it, broke it, fixed it again so they would appear to have traveled a long way. I can see them rounding up the skinniest weakest looking donkeys. The ruse worked, and Joshua and the others were deceived. It would seem that at least one of the Gibeonites had some measure of integrity because somehow in their three days together word got out that the Gibeonites were their next door neighbors and inhabited part of the land they were promised by God. The Gibeonites were a part of the hivites and God had promised in Joshua 3:10 (can someone read that?) to drive them out.

But don't miss this, right here is where Joshua made his first mistake with these people and not for the first time. It was his critical mistake when they fought the city of Ai as well. Then and now he went into the situation without praying to God. People, let me just put it out there if you ever go to war, make sure you pray FIRST. Likewise Joshua should have prayed before entering into diplomacy with these deceitful men. Because they didn't seek God, because they didn't pray these gibeonites were able to take advantage of the nation of Israel.

We aren't told why Joshua didn't pray, but here is a possible reason – perhaps Joshua thought he had it all under control. That is Arrogance in the extreme. I can just see a newly elected young leader being a little full of himself. I've known people like this, read books about people like this. They don't even see it. However in effect they have placed themselves on the throne of their lives – on the throne that belongs to God. Pray always, pray without ceasing. We need to be people of prayer. You know the first and second great awakenings followed on the heals of churches praying for revival in their communities for years. Praying for the lost, weeping over the lost… When is the last time we've wept for the lost?

You guys have heard the stories of how God has done miracles in my own life. Cars that should have run out of gas continuing to work, money landing in my mailbox when I needed it for a missions trip. I have to tell the story again I don't think all of you have heard it. (Haiti Missions trip).

Prayer works people – my mother was healed of artritis. She'd been diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis as a girl. They expected her to be crippled by adulthood. Praise God she wasn't crippled. But she still suffered with the pain of it. The doctors couldn't explain it. But she continued to do pretty well just ignoring the pain. No medications or anything like that. Every few years they would do another blood test and find that she still had the rheumatoid. It was severe enough it was making her fingers twist. It caused near constant pain. But one day at lakeview, right before she was to have another blood test, Pastor Clark prayed and asked for God to heal her, and God did!

## Joshua's Integrity

Its interesting to me the position Joshua finds himself in. He went from conquering hero, to defender of a people that God had told Joshua to drive out of the land of Israel. I can almost hear the Israelites now: But Joshua, we were supposed to defeat them in battle, look – lets just kill them here and now and be done with it. It will restored the intended Order. But Joshua had given his word by Jehovah God, and rightly refused to break it. In fact vs 26 says that Joshua delivered them out of the hand of the people of Israel. We can't say for certain what that means, but it sounds to me like they had people out for blood – perhaps even to the point where it was easier to move all the gibeonites out of the camp and back to their home, than it was to control his own people.

## What Happened to the Gibeonites?

Some of you might be wondering what happened to the Gibeonites. I looked them up in some of my books and found out that the gibeonites aren't mentioned much more in scripture. The next reference is in the days of King David. During David's reign a famine came upon the land, and when David sought the Lord about it, God told him it was because Saul had put Gibeonites to death, violating Joshua's oath. Seven of Saul's descendants were given over to the Gibeonites as a result. After that, no one is really sure what became of the Gibeonites – but – there are many that speculate that they are the Nethinim or those selected to serve in and clean the temple. Modern day experts say they may well have had some of the earliest sophisticated water systems in their city. Archaeologists uncovered massive underground wine cellars at the ancient site of Gibeon. Further they speculate that some of the gibeonites may have later migrated and mingled with other populations, though the details are lost to history. Its all speculation – we don't really know. But there were some interesting correlations.

In vs 23 we see that the Gibeonites are cursed – they are told they will never be more than cutters of wood and drawers of water for the house of God. In fact the tabernacle would be in Gibeon until Solomons temple much much later.

Ultimately though it seems their fear of the Lord saved their lives. Even though they would spend the rest of their lives as servants, and indeed so would many of their descendents, that was better than death.

## The Gibeonites and Us

I kind of see myself in the gibeonite to a degree. They were deserving of death (as we all are deserving of hell), they believed in God, and were spared. Don't poke at that too much because it will fall apart.

Once I saw this, I couldn't help but be drawn back to Eph 2:4-9. Pretty much everyone here knows eph 2:8-9 if you know it say it with me – for by grace you have been saved, through faith, and this not of your self it is the gift of God lest any man should boast.

But how many of you know the preceding four verses?

> But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved—and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
> — Ephesians 2:4–9

The Gibeonites didn't deserve to be spared. They were deceitful and lacking in integrity. But for their belief in God, and because of his great grace they were spared.

Maybe as you sit here tonight you are like the gibeonites. Maybe you're problem isn't deceit, maybe its drugs, or alcohol, or adultery, or whatever. In the end it's a sin problem, and an integrity problem. Close your eyes for a minute – and just you and God, ask your self if you have come to a point in your spiritual life where you've accepted Jesus Christ payment for your sin, and accepted him as your savior?

With every head bowed and every eye closed, if you can't say that you know, that you know, that you know that you are going to be in heaven with Jesus at the end of your life, if you've never come to a point in your spiritual life where you've accepted Christ as your savior, I want you just to lift up your hand. No ones looking. (pause) OK, OK… Now if that is something you are ready to do, or if you're ready to re-commit your life to Jesus Christ – maybe you've wandered far from him, but you're ready to turn back around and follow Christ I'd like you to raise your hand.

Father you've seen the hearts of the people here tonight. You know where their souls are headed and you aren't fooled. Lord if they don't know you as their lord and savior I pray that you would send people their way, that you would put Godly people into their life who would pour their lives into these people so that they would have no choice but to come to know you as savior. Don't let them have a moment peace until they yield their lives to you Lord.

## Communion

> The Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me." In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me." For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
> — 1 Corinthians 11:23–26
