Let the Nations be Glad PT 2-3

Ken Baker 000210914

I think the part that resonated the most with this writer was the parts about suffering in missions. It might be easy to think one is overly excited by being a martyr – and that could (rightfully) cause red flags to go up. In truth no one relishes the thought of dying young, or of experiencing deep suffering. However most can identify with suffering of some sort and can really appreciate the ways in which God uses this tool in other people's lives to see the lost reached. In 2001 a professor at Trinity College of Florida bullied from the pulpit "count the cost" he was preaching on missions; and wanted his audience to come to grips with the fact they may die, they may be maimed, they may have to watch their wife, children, or teammates die, or be dismembered. But Praise God for his faithfulness. Praise God that when He asks us to make the ultimate sacrifice: 1. The request is reasonable – It is nothing he would and hasn't asked His son to go through, and 2. Frequently surrounding such a request many people are saved. As for this writer, should even one individual come to know the Lord through my life, death, or any other circumstance that the Lord ordains – then it was all worth it. Obviously as a single man with no kids perhaps this is easier to say. But if circumstances were different, I think I could come to a point where I could praise God for allowing me to identify with Him in that small way. It would definitely take time, but I think I would get there.
