1 john 3:11 pt 2
I sometimes like to watch a guy named ray comfort do his street evangelism. Are you familiar with him? He stands out on the street and with a big speaker he walks through the ten commandments with people. People tell him they are good people, and then they admit they’ve broken most of the ten commandments. Any way at a certain point he gets to the sixth commandment, and he asks folks have they ever committed murder, and pretty much everyone always says “no”. certainly not. I’d never, how can you even ask me that. Ray goes on to ask if they have ever hated another human being, and again most people answer that yes they have. He explains that according to the bible, to harbor hatred in your heart for another human being is a murderer. 

Which basically makes most of us murderers. Right? Hard to dodge that one. In our passage this morning, were going to look at the verse that explains that a bit, though that won’t be our focus. 

so if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, open with me to 1 john ch 3. We are going to start in vs 11. 

While you’re turning there I want to talk to you about the bible memorization, anyone memorize the verses this week? I’m going to try and say all of them so far from memory. 

1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at and our hands have touched—this we proclaim concerning the Word of life. 2 The life appeared; we have seen it and testify to it, and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and has appeared to us. 3 We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. 4 We write this to make our[a] joy complete.

Next week we are going to work on adding vs 5-6 which is: 5 This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you: God is light; in him there is no darkness at all. 6 If we claim to have fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live out the truth

Our people group of the week this week is: 

One of the themes of this book is how to find joy as a believer through fellowship with other believers, through fellowship with God, through holiness, and through Love. 

Love kind of fuels these other things right? If you hate people, you’re going to have a hard time fellowshipping with them aren’t you? Hatred in all its forms creates walls, while love is more inviting. 

Lets read our passage. :11-24
John begins by making a contrast between love and hate, so lets start with hate. Don’t be like Cain. 

You guys of course remember the story of cain and able. Adam and eve were created, and like any kid, immediately did what God had told them not to do. In sinning that way they introduced sin into the world for all time, the mold was broken like we discussed last week. God institutes a system of sacrifices for different things to cover but not wash away their sins. and Out of that broken mold pops cain and able. Abel kept flocks of livestock. Cain preferred plants, he planted fields, and grew crops, and when the time came Abel was obedient to God, and put the best portion of his meat on the alter, and Cain chose to disobey God and put some fruit of the field up there instead. Abel obeyed God, and God was happy, but Cain disobeyed God and it made God angry with him. God spoke to cain and warned him, that what he was thinking about doing would be wrong, and that he needed to gain mastery of himself, or sin would be his master. 

So Cain murders his brother in anger. In hatred. God rejected cains inappropriate sacrifice, and cain took that out on his brother. Killing him and leaving him in the field. God who talked to these people audibly at this point still spoke to cain and punished him. 

I have to say something here briefly, I really don’t want to get into it too deeply. But to our shame as a denomination, in our more racist years, racist people adopted the Mormon teaching that the mark of cain was to be black. But that is NOT what scripture says. At all. Not in the Hebrew. Not in the ancient rabbinic literature, not in the ancient commentaries that were used by people of any generation to study the Torah – which is what they called the first five books of the old testament, or even if you were to expand that to the entirety of the tanahk or basically what we call the old testament, or even if you were to expand it to extra biblical literature, there was literally no one that thought the mark of cain was black people until the 1880s – around the time of the jim crow laws as it happens. 

Interestingly jewish tradition through the renowned ancient scholar Rashi is that basically God wrote his name on Cain’s forehead. The group that really spearheaded this effort to make sure people believed black people bore the mark of cain were the Mormons, and in fact the Mormons barred people of dark skin from being Mormon priests all the way up until 1978. 

So, while we don’t really know what the mark of Cain is, chances are good Cain, Able, Adam, and Eve were dark skinned due to the part of the world they are from. The only thing I can say for sure is that the mark of cain isn’t the racist Mormon belief that he was made black. In fact, there is no indication that this was a mark that could even be passed on to succeeding generations. This whole line of thought in my opinion is tied back into hatred. Like cain had for his brother. The desire to oppress, and suppress. Its sinful and wrong. Whatever the reason for hatred of other image bearers of God, hatred is always wrong. It doesn’t matter if they are white or black, yellow, red, or polka dotted. Color isn’t a good enough reason for hatred. It doesn’t matter if they like Trump, or Biden. Or shoot, in todays world, you have to say it differently, it doesn’t matter if they are trump or biden, hatred is still wrong. And for another And in practical terms that can be hard to grapple with. 

You guys have heard about my neighbors, stealing my grandfathers tools, damaging my property, putting poison down where I tie my dogs out, that can hurt dogs, and all these things. It in practice is HARD not to brush up against hate when all they ever do to you is cause you heartache and pain. But that is exactly what God has called us to do. John writes, in vs 16 that our example is Christ. 6 By this we know love, that He laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. 17 But if anyone has the world’s goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God’s love abide in him? 18 Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.

John’s telling us to put our money where our mouth is so to speak. If we say we follow God, then our life should reflect that. Love for God should be overflowing out of us onto those around us. Not anger for things, like my grandfathers tools. Christ told us that HE loved us.  You’ve heard people say, maybe on tv, or somewhere, but you’ve probably heard people say your mouth is writing checks that your body can’t cash. The check Jesus wrote with his mouth was love for us, and his body paid the price of that love. He loved us enough to die for us. Knowing who we are, and what we think, and say and do, He loved us enough to die from one of the most horrific forms of punishment man has dreamed up. Knowing that this is what he would endure, he died for us. He said “erica, I’m going to die for erica. And Dottie, I’m dying for dottie to, and Kathy, I’ll die for her, oh, and you and you and you. You don’t deserve it, you may never understand or appreciate it, but I love you enough to give my life for you any way. What a wonderful Gift. Christ is our example in love. So like Christ. Well turn with me to luke first, Luke 6:27ff 27 “But to you who are listening I say: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 28 bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. 29 If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also. If someone takes your coat, do not withhold your shirt from them. 30 Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. 31 Do to others as you would have them do to you. 32 “If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. 33 And if you do good to those who are good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that. 34 And if you lend to those from whom you expect repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full. 35 But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High, because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked. 36 Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
So when you get mad the precious few things you have from your grandfather are stolen by your neighbors, what should our response be? If were angry for long, the problem is we love our stuff to much. Sometimes it means we love our stuff more than we love Christ. 

Are those tools of my grandfathers ever going to benefit me in heaven? Can they get me to heaven? Can they choose to die in my place? Certainly not. But what does Jesus say my posture should be towards those that (clearly) hate me? Bless them. Love them. Do good to them. Pray for them. Turn the other cheek. Specifically when something of yours is taken away, like my tools, don’t demand it back. Now does Luke write “except when those items are precious to you? If you only care about those things 5 out of 10, then give them away, but if you care 6 in 10, or more, then you better fight to get them back. Those are yours, and your rights are being trod upon. 

Jesus is saying to give up your rights here. Not in the large scale nationwide political context. But on the interpersonal one on one context. When someone wrongs you. Love them any way. When someone takes advantage, be wise. But love them any way. When someone steals from you, it’s a gift from God to them. Corrie Ten Boom – Have you ever heard of her? She’s a hero by any definition I know of. 

She was a young girl during ww2. She was a Christian living in the Netherlands under german occupation. She had these bible studies in her home where 30 plus people would meet. Any time they heard of anyone opposing the germans, she would hide them in their home. She had a false wall installed, and made a secret passage way out of the back of a chest of drawers into the hidden room between the walls. Hundreds of people from the late 30s clear till 1944 were squirreled away in her little hidey hole in her upstairs walls. Hundreds of people destined for death, were saved by Corrie Ten Boom’s obedience to God, and love for her neighbors. She didn’t just live this out in secret either. She and her brother and sister publicly called on Germany to repent and turn from their evil. 

Until February of 1944, when they came for Corrie. They arrested her whole family, and their bible study. Dozens of people were arrested and taken to a concentration camp. However they missed the six people hiding upstairs between the walls. 

Corrie Ten Boom’s love for her neighbor ended up costing her greatly. After a few months of inhumane treatment, and torture, her siblings died. By the end of the war, she was the last remaining member of her family. It had cost her everything she had to demonstrate Christ’s love in those dark days. It nearly cost her her very life. It cost her her family home. It cost her, her fathers business. It cost her many years of her life. Her father, and her siblings. 

I think it would have been difficult for me, to not hate the germans, at that point. Can you imagine what that would be like? Losing your family, and most of your friends to a concentration camp like that? 

But you know what Corrie Ten Boom said when she got back home? And I’m paraphrasing here, but she said the best way forward is to love the germans, and make sure we find reconciliation. She wanted to forgive them, and even though it had cost her basically everything, she wanted peace with Germany. She wanted to, and would go on to demonstrate christ’s love for the germans for the rest of her life. She would travel, and share her experiences, and then tell people how it was Christ’s love that sustained her, and inspired her, and fueled her love for her neighbors. 

This kind of radical love is what we are called to. In every aspect. In helping the poor. In giving freely of our time, even when were tired, even when we are emotional, to show others love. 

For those of you that do live this way, its hard not to grow jaded a little bit. When I was in college, If I was stopping at mcdonalds, or something on my way to or from work or one of my jobs, I tried to make it a habit to stop and ask a homeless sign holding person if I could buy them a sandwich. Probably 9x in ten they would tell me they would rather have the money. But that tenth person was incredibly grateful. It only cost me a dollar. But it bought me the opportunity to tell them about my Jesus. Those are some of the best dollars I’ve ever spent. 

If you love those that love you, what credit is that to you, if you lend to those who will repay you, what credit is that to you? But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. 

That’s what God wants from us in loving our neighbor. But he did no less for us. He did more than that. He loved us all the way to his death with this same kind of love that he now commands us to have for others. 

Near the end of the 1st john passage it says this: 23 And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he has commanded us. If you don’t yet know Jesus, you may be sitting there thinking that this is kind of a high bill to pay towards strangers. 

But imagine a world where everyone gave so freely to those they know, and to those they don’t. Imagine if Jeff Bezos, Bill gates, and Elon Musk started living like this tomorrow. 

Imagine a single mom walking into a tesla dealership, and being given a car, so that she can continue to work, and take care of her family. 

Or imagine all those dollars being put to use to solve things like world hunger? Or used to create good jobs for people. Not out of government compulsion, not at that level. On a one on one level, people choosing to help people. 

There is a youtuber that I sometimes watch. My nieces and nephews introduced him to me. He’s a young man. He calls himself beast. I don’t know if he is a Christian or not. Turns out he lives not terribly far from where I lived in north Carolina. But he loves to do things for people. He bought all of the cars in a dealership one day, and everyone that came by car shopping was either given a car, or sold a car for 5$. Tax, title, tags. 5$. For a used car. He’s crazy wealthy, all self made. But my understanding is he’s been like that from the start. Every dollar he made went back into his you tube channel, and every dollar it made has been used to help hurting people. Another time he bought out every single item in a grocery store so that he could give it to a food pantry. 

He blesses other people in the overflow of what God has blessed him with. 

He does it for ratings. We should do it because we love God.

SO I challenge you to do something loving for someone. We have time, treasures and talent, all that can be brought to bear to do and be loving towards others. So I’m not telling you to buy someone a car. Maybe for you, it means helping someone broken down on the side of the road change a tire. That’s giving of your time and talents. But maybe for you, you have more treasure than time, in that case by all means. But don’t tell me about it. Keep it between you and God and the person or organization you help. I don’t need to know details. But this is something we are called to live out. For each other here in church, and for those outside of our church body as well. We are to live Christ’s love for others each day. It’s a radical world changing love. Living out this others first love leads to joy. 

Corrie ten boom famously said hold everything in your life with open hands, otherwise when God pries things loose, he might hurt your fingers. 

Hold on to your time with open hands. Help others where you can, and you’ll find joy. 

But it all starts with the gospel. 
Gospel
Communion
