1 kings 18

This is one of my favorite stories in the old testament. I really like Elijah in particular. Of all the stories about Elijah, I think this one is my favorite. To catch you up to where we are, God had basically commanded Elijah to strike right at the heart of baal worship. Baal is a fertility God, whose followers believed could bring rain to a land that needs it. The first thing that God does is strike at the heart of their Idol. If the idol brings rain, God sends them a drought. This case was no different – God sends Elijah right into the palace of the king and queen – Ahab and Jezebell, and has Elijah drive a stake straight into the heart of the alleged benefits of baal. 

If God is willing to do that to Idols in the old testament, what do you think he will do to our idols today? If you value comfort, or money, over God? How do you think God will react to those idols in your life? 

When I was little, I was part of a puppeteer team, and we went to a national competition and performed this story. We took I think second place. It was fun, I played ahab, and there is a moment when the narrarator was speaking of jezebel and said “she was a very wicked person”. On a lark, I made Ahab look over at Jezebell, and shake his head yes. The crowd roared with laughter. It was a fun experience. But in truth both ahab and jezebel were pretty wicked. Jezebell seems to have been the driving force behind the persecution of Christians. Elijah thought he was the only prophet left, but another prophet Obadiah had hidden a number of them away in the mountains. But that doesn’t change the fact that as far as Elijah knew, he was the last prophet of God – a God that from an earthly perspective seemed to behind in points at half time. Ahab, Jezebel and maybe even Elijah had confused God’s patience with God losing. God wasn’t behind at all, he wasn’t losing, he was being long suffering with his people. They didn’t realize the storys conclusion had already been written. Spoiler alert. God wins! Just because you haven’t seen him moving doesn’t mean his isn’t or wont. God had helped Obadiah squirrel away a bunch of prophets. 

Imagine what that would be like to run into the throne room condemn someone antagonistic to your Savior, declare their religion is impotent and false, and then storm off. He certainly made a massive impact on the king and queen because they sent people to the furthest known corners of the world looking for Elijah to kill him. 

Yet the Lord had already won, and so Elijah was safe. 

The situation at mt carmel was probably his biggest most public showdown with Ahab and Jezebel.  Elijah showed up basically out of no where, and agreed to meet with the evil kings, and told them to gather up all their prophets and prophetesses and agreed to have a showdown. All the hundreds and hundreds of your prophets, vs just little old me, you’ll have no problem right? SO they agreed, and they made the preperations. They made an alter, and got a bull, and put it on the wood. They then began to try and entice Baal to starting the alter on fire, to accepting his offering. But Baal – being a stick of wood – sits there silent. Nothing happens. As you might expect for a stick. Elijah I think had a sense of humor though, because he starts taunting them. Maybe hes traveling? Or using the bathroom, or just lost in thought. Maybe you guys just aren’t significant enough to warrant his attention. So they redoubled their efforts and again silence, and by now they are cutting themselves as part of their worship of baal. Running, and jumping and cutting, and yet still baal was silent.

Eventually they gave up. 

Elijah in the mean time had been praying. He had his alter made, and soaked the alter, the wood and the sacrifice all with water, 12 barrels of water. Hundreds of gallons in total. That’s about where we pick up with Elijah this morning. IN fact there are three things here that we have to talk about, and then I want to spend some time in prayer at the end. 

But first lets read our passage today. 
1 kings 18:33-41

To this point one of the major struggles of the people of Israel had been the worship of idols. Their allegiance was divided between the one true God and basically any other stick that was carried through camp. The baals, asheroth, and a number of other caananite gods were all happily adopted by the Israelite people. From their perspective they weren’t replacing their God, just adding to the collection. If one God is good, isn’t two better they seem to be thinking. But how does God feel about that?

God’s a jealous God, and from the perspective of truth, why would we want to worship the one and only God, along side a silly stick anyway? But still they persist in adding fake deitys to their worship routine. It kind of reminds me of the hindu’s. Are you familiar with the hindus? They have a pantheon of millions of little g gods, and anytime they hear of a new one, they are quick to add him to their list for fear of offending him or her. The greeks did this as well in Pauls day, in fact they even had a temple that was dedicated to the unknown God so that they wouldn’t offend him by their ignorance. Paul used that temple as an opportunity for evangelism in Acts, telling them the temple to the unknown God is really for the God of Israel. Ultimately Paul sees a great harvest in the greek lands as a result. But God loves them too much to leave them subject to a lie like that. He loves the Israelites too much to leave them where they are at in our passage today as well. So he prays a relkatively simple prayer probably only 20 words in English. Let it be known today that you are God, and turn these peoples hearts back to you is the main part of the prayer. And notice the fire, it comes out of the sky. It doesn’t come from under the alter. Its different than normal fire, this is fire of the Lord, it comes out of the sky, and burns up the sacrifice, and seems to ignore the wood, until it’s the woods turn, then the rocks, and then the water and even the dirt. 

If this had been a normal man made fire, it would have started from the ground up. It would have burned the water first, and then the wood, and then the meat, and would likely have never been hot enough for the Fire to compromise the stone. The only thing hot enough to not melt, but completely burn away stone in this time period is God himself. 

This whole passage and so much of the old testament to this point has circled around a single theme that I think is best summarized by A passage we read a few weeks back – remember Joshua 24? 

Choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your ancestors served beyond the Euphrates, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living. But as for me and my household, we will serve the LORD."

God is trying to teach his people to follow him, to choose him, to have a relationship with him. Not Him and baal, or him and asheroth,, or him and Zeus, or Buddah, or shiva, or anyone else. God is a jealous God. He has had enough of his people dividing their loyalties between him and Sticks, or lumps of bronze, and he’s I think angry to a point. He’s been terribly patient, terrible gracious, and his wrath will one day be terrible for those who don’t get it right. 

Our country is a jealous country. Some countries they don’t care what other countries you’re a citizen of. In the UK, some people collect citizenships like people here do baseball cards. But americans for the most part are not allowed to do that. There have been a couple brief periods for a couple neighboring countries,  But by and large, you have to renounce your old citizenship to become a citizen of our country. If your loyalties are divided you aren’t really helping either, and are potentially a liability to both. Elijah says of such people – look at verse 20 with me - How long will you go limping between two different opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him.” And the people did not answer him a word.
 
Further they stood by and let the king issue death warrants for the Prophets of God. Other than Obadiah, we don’t hear of anyone standing up for the men of God while they are being persecuted. Not even Elijah. 

These double minded people seem to have some key charecteristics both then and now. In the gospel of James, we learn that double minded people hear but don’t do. We have all known kids like this right? They “hear” your instruction, but don’t do it. When confronted, what does a kid say? I forgot!

I love my nieces and nephews but they sometimes do this. Right now a couple of them are grounded from touching the cat. They want to play with the cat like kids play with other kids, but a kitten won’t hold up under that level of playing, and despite being told what seems like a hundred times, they still play too roughly with the kitten. Its an innocent thing I think, but they are hearers only, and no doers. For you and I when we Hear what God wants of us, when we Hear what God expects and we choose to ignore it, or do something contrary, or in opposition to what God wants we might be double minded like the Israelites. 

Secondly and like the first it involves what we know. Do we KNOW what God wants of us? A timeless truth, true both in the old and the new testaments is that we shouldn’t lie. We know that. We can feel that lying is wrong, its written on our hearts I think that we should be honest, and act with integrity, and yet there are lots of people out there, even Christians that are ok with bending the truth. Its not ok! You know its wrong. Likewise peoples language, I cant tell you how many Christians I’ve heard curse. But what do we know about our speech? Colossians 3:8 says “But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.”. 

Ephesians says Corrupt speech, Mathew says it even broader by condemning careless speech. James 3 says we shouldn’t use our mouthes to curse, and yet that’s the place so many Christians go when angry. If that’s you, you’re not alone. But it’s a symptom of a deeper problem, an entanglement with sin that shouldn’t be. You might be like the Israelites. 

There are a lot of other things we could get into. There are a hundred ways our loyalties can be divided, a hundred things we can put ahead of our lord and savior Jesus Christ. But in the end, you run the risk of God striking at the heart of your idol. 

IF your idol is your comfort, maybe he’ll put you in uncomfortable places. If its money, maybe, just maybe he’ll let you experience financial hardship for a time. Whatever it is, God is jealous and will be working to pull that poison out of you. 

I had a situation when I was a kid. I was walking barefoot and stepped on something. It bothered me for week. But I kept going. Finally one day we noticed a red line going up the side of my leg. Those of you that are familiar with such things know that can be very serious. My father had experienced something similar as a kid, and they had made him soak his foot in hot water mixed heavily with Epsom salts. So they did the same thing to me until they could get me in to see the doctor. 

The doctor said there is only one solution, we have to cut out the source of the infection in your foot. 

Like my foot, if you find yourself being double minded about things there is only one solution. Its not more will power. People try and change themselves with these programs, and gurus, its not that. You might be able to change your behavior, but the source of the problem is still there. The source of the infection still needs to be cut out, and there is only one doctor that can do that, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. 

If all you do is change your behavior – that’s good. But its not enough. It all starts with a relationship with God. He can and will cut those infection causing thorns out of our souls. If you don’t have a relationship with God that’s where you start, and in a moment when the praise teams comes up you’ll have an opportunity to do so.   If you already are a Christian, and have a relationship with God, and are struggling in these areas you need to be spending more time on your relationship with God. Reading through his word, Praying, fellowship with believers, and worshipping God are all vital to our spiritual health. All are critical in helping us overcome the double mindedness that comes so easily to all people. The more we come to know and love Christ, the more we begin to change in those keys ways. The more we love Christ, the less we desire fulfillment in things, or security outside of that which we have in Christ, or things of this world. Our savior is our source for these things, and others besides. If you are trying to find them any where else then its possible that you are double minded. 

Won’t you come?
