If the people of scripture were mountain peaks, Solomon is definitely one of the big ones of the old testament. He started out so well as we shall read. Humble and aware of his faults he understands and realizes just how far short he falls of the task at hand. He knows he is dependent upon God. Humble submissions is a great place to find yourself. Because who of us is able on our own to rise to the tasks that God has set before us? We are so frail and feeble apart from Christ. Even the strongest of us has made mistakes at various points, done things we regret, committed sins. And even one sin seperates us from God does it not? 

So often we have this idea that just a little sin in our lives is ok. Our sins are paid for past present and future, so that gives us license to sin does it not? Paul answers that – may it never be. At Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary where I’ve been attending school they had a chapel preacher that said we should treat sin like we would treat a noose around our necks. You wouldn’t want just a little bit of noose around your neck would you? Yet we as believers continue to compromise and accept just a little cursing, or just a little porn, or just a little of this or that pet sin. You know where you’re weak. Maybe its apathy with the gospel, I think that can be a sin. Maybe its just a little bit of dishonesty. God knows the truth, he’s not fooled! 

Today were going to read about the wisest man in the bible, and his most foolish mistake. 

1 Kings 3:2-14 Now jump ahead to the end of chapter 6
6:38-7:1 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was finished in all its parts, and according to all its specifications. He was seven years in building it. Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished his entire house.

Now jump down to 11:2

2 from the nations concerning which the Lord had said to the people of Israel, “You shall not enter into marriage with them, neither shall they with you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods.” Solomon clung to these in love. 3 He had 700 wives, who were princesses, and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart. 4 For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not wholly true to the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. 5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. 6 So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and did not wholly follow the Lord, as David his father had done.

The wealth and power of Israel is tremendous. In terms of their military at this point they are perhaps more powerful than Egypt. Remember when the army of pharoh was chasing the Israelites and they walked across the sea floor on dry land? Only to have Pharoah chase them, and lose his entire army? Well at this point Israel has twice the number of chariots that Pharaoh lost. The bible says at this point their numbers were close to that of the grains of sand on a sea shore. There were a LOT of Israelites.

So it strikes me that Solomon’s first compromise was right at the beginning of chapter 3. Soloman married the daughter of Pharoah. As we read the people of Israel were told they shall not enter into marriage with the foreigners because they would turn their hearts away from God. Yet that seems to be the very first thing he does. With 700 wives and 300 concubines who knows whether she was really the first or not, but shes the first one that we hear about, and perhaps the most significant. Egypt was the world super power at the time. Israel had just escaped from there not all that long ago with plagues and death of all the first borns. It’s a testament to the current wealth and power of Israel that Pharoah would be willing to have Soloman as his son in law. In fact he gives them territory as a wedding gift to his daughter by conquering the caananite town of gezer and giving it to the newly weds. Problem was what lives in a caananite city? Caananites. Another compromise is allowing them to remain in Israel. So seemingly right off the bat, Soloman has already made some bad decisions. He’s not yet worshipping fake gods and sticks, but he’s made some significant compromises that are going to shape the rest of his life. 

Its on the heals of these mistakes that Soloman sacrifices a thousand animals to the Lord. 

We cant know what was going through solomons head here. We aren’t God, but the way God responds, I like to think that Soloman knew he’d messed up already – perhaps even that marrying the Egyptian  was a mistake. Because in one swift move he’d made two great sins - firstly by marrying the foreign woman in the first place, and secondly by marrying her he had incorporated more caananites into Israel. 

God is so quick to forgive though. Isn’t that a blessing? Soloman even seems repentant. Notice in vs 4, Soloman went to Gibeon for it was the great high place. The caananites had this idea that the higher up you were from the earth, the closer you were to God, the easier for him to see what you were doing. 

Soloman chose the highest place for his sacrifices. What we know from Scripture is that God is everywhere. Hes in the lowest valleys, and the highest mountain tops, and everywhere in between. He’s in all the layers of the atmosphere, and in space, and beyond. On the microscopic level he is in between, on top of, underneath and around every single molecule that has ever and will ever exist. He’s everywhere. So why does God seem to honor Solomons request? 

I think God is responding to the lengths Soloman is willing to go to in order to please God. Like when you give a gift – it’s the thought that counts. Some gifts are especially thoughtful. In this instance, I think it’s a response to the effort. 

When you think of going to the top of pikes peak. Once upon a time that was harrowing journey. Mules, and ropes. Hammers, spikes, and a lot of prayer and you might get to the top. These days you can drive to the top, or else take a train to the top of pikes peak. But for most of the mountains history if someone wanted to get to the top it was a harrowing journey. The mountains of Gibeon were not quite as pikes peak, but they are still around a mile above the city. A few years back we went to grandfather mountain, and they have a mile high rope bridge up there. Its firmly attached at both sides of the gorge. But its an eerie feeling looking down a full mile to the ground below you. This isn’t a place a chariot could go. There are no guard rails to keep you from falling off. It was a dangerous hike, and a dangerous climb to get to the top. 

When I was a kid in Sunday school my teacher talked about this once that I can remember, and it was treated pretty casually that some how Soloman was able to not only get him self to the top of this mile high mountain, but he also brought a thousand cattle with him for sacrifice. The strain of the mountain climb can be a lot for anyone, but imagine now having to bring 1000 animals up with you? The time and cost that went into securing 1000 animals worth sacrificing? This wasn’t some whim. He just didn’t wake up one morning and say I think I’ll sacrifice a thousand cattle today. He had to have planned this out, he had to have had a team of people to drive the cattle, devised systems to get the cattle up the mountain. He and a bunch of other people would have had to put a lot of thought into how to get that many cattle and people, and so forth up the side of that mountain. This was a well planned thing, it had to have been. You can’t just take a thousand cattle up the mountain on a whim! Likewise once they were up there, you cant just quickly sacrifice 1000 animals. This may have taken him weeks. We don’t know for sure. But modern technology allows us to fully cremate a large dog in 2 hrs. 

Using that as a bench mark, and doubling that to allow for the preparation of the animal, 4 hrs an animal, which I think sounds really fast, you’re talking about 4000 hrs of work. Even if they could burn two animals at once upon the alter, you’re still talking about 3000 hrs. 3000 hrs, at 10hrs a day, you’re looking at potentially 300 longggggggggggg days of sacrifice. 

Soloman may well have spent the first lunar year of his rule as King offering sacrifices  all day every day. Ladies I bet that made his new Egyptian wife happy! Hey lets get married, ok see ya next year!

Point is Soloman spent a year trying to honor God with all of his time, his talents, and a whole bunch of treasure. Livestock wasn’t cheap then, and it isn’t cheap now. Much less a thousand of them. 

God honored that in Solomans life. Obviously God doesn’t honor all of us the same way he honored Soloman. Soloman was given his choice. I think God knew what Soloman would choose. That he would choose wisdom, and the mental tools he needed to do his best by God’s people. God gave him other blessings too. He made Soloman probably the richest man of his day, honored him even amoungst kings of men. And best of all he gave him a wise and discerning mind more so than any other man that has ever been, and more than any other man that will ever be. In case you were wondering the pronoun in the Hebrew is impersonal and ploural, so I suspect that God also means to include women in this. You could take what he’s saying as “person” no other person before or after Soloman will be as wise. 

Likewise in the looking at the Hebrew I saw a number of other things being communicated that didn’t quite make it through into the English. 

Look with me at vs 14 – if you walk in my ways, and keep my statutes and commandments as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days. 

I noticed this while looking at the way the Hebrew was using the word they translated into “you”. Up until this point you was impersonal and plural. Like how they say “yall” in the south. But it changes here. That first you is singular and imperfect. In English when we change tense we are usually referring to time. It happened, is happening, and will happen, those are our three tenses – past, present and future. In Hebrew there are only two – perfect, and imperfect. Both are speaking of action. Perfect tense speaks of an action already completed, and imperfect of an action that is ongoing. 

While I was there I looked up “walk in my ways”. That seems straight forward, but the Hebrew word there is complex. It has several meanings – to exert ones self, to die in exertion, or to perish. You could re-translate that opening phrase as “If you start now to exert yourself, in obedience until death”. 

The second condition of the promise was to keep my statutes and commandments like your father David. I looked those words up too. The word keep is appropriate, but an understatement of what Soloman was being asked to do. The word for keep, could also be translated protect, or guard or to preserve. I think it may have been intended as a double entendre here. I think God was asking him to not only Keep God’s commands, but to safeguard the same in the kingdom. He wanted Soloman to maintain God’s commands, as the law of his heart, and the law of the land, as David had done. 

So again, that whole sentence could have been translated “If you start now to exert yourself, in obedience until death, and if you personally keep my commands, and make them the law of the land like your father David did” then you’ll get the added blessing of long life. 

I’ve heard some preachers say that this passage is the key to long life. A lot of people lust after long life, wanting to live to 100 or beyond. I’ve never really felt that way. I know some people that have lived into their 90s or to 100 and beyond. Many of them outlived most of their kids, some of their grand kids, all their friends, their brothers and sisters, until they alone are left and with little independence. Sure they have kids, and their kids have had kids, but by 100 frequently, your kids have had kids whove had kids, whove had kids whove had kids. All of them are busy with their lives, with their kids, with their activities at church. I know a really dear lady, who was good friends, perhaps best friends with my grandmother. She’s getting into this age group. Shes been around our family so long she may as well be part of it. We see her about twice a year, and every time we talk I ask her about her family, you get to see much of your kids? Oh…. Some she’ll say, but not as much as she’d like. She sees less of the grand kids, less still of their kids. Shes alone, and depends on people in her neighborhood or at church to get around. It’s a lonely isolating existence. I don’t think long life is all its cracked up to be. But any way, in any event this seems to be a promise for Soloman alone. God is offering a young man whose repenting, and seeking to honor God every day for a year with a very specific set of blessings Just for soloman. 

I think he blesses us still today, but differently. We are blessed by having access to the holy spirit. A counselor, a guide, an intercessor. He helps prop us up when we need it, I was talking with someone a while back and pointed out that even when our brain can’t formulate the right words to say, the Holy spirit understand our needs and communicates them to God on our behalf. I think that’s a better prayer than anything our feeble minds can come up with. God himself as the holy spirit, examining the deepest recesses of our soul, and formulating a prayer for our needs when we don’t even have the words to say. Not only that but because of Christ we have the benefit of salvation. We are lost and mired in sin apart from Christ, but with Christ, we have hope and a future. Not to mention the renewing effects persuing Christ has on our heart, and mind. Its like we’ve been playing in the mud, and are covered before Christ. The sin in our life is like the mud, gets everywhere, covers everything, might even make us smell bad. But Christ at the moment of salvation washes us white as snow. 

God honors our efforts to persue him in other ways too. But it all starts with salvation and the gospel.
