This time of the year people think and talk a lot about new years resolutions. Any of you make any this year? I made one, I put about 500 miles on my kayak last year, and I want to match that or more on my bicycle. 500 miles took me 167 days on the kayak. We shall see with the bicycle, but I think I should be able to exceed that. It’s a pretty good step up, but as long as I do one of them Monday thru Friday its achievable.. Second, I always try to read cover to cover 100 books each year. This year I hit 127.  Next year I want to be a little more diverse in my reading, I want to read biographies, and histories in addition to fiction, theology, and the bible. Thirdly, I like to read through the bible each year at least once. This past year I followed Robert Murray McCheynes pattern which meant reading 5-6 chapters a day, which was kind of aggressive. So I’d like to challenge all of you to join me in a 2 chapter a day bible reading plan in this coming year. Finally, I try to love more like Christ. I read a quote this week by a man named toplady, he said “upon review of the previous year I desire to confess that my unfaithfulness has been exceeding great; my sins still greater, and God’s mercies greater than both. My shortcomings, mid doings, and unbelief would sink me into the lowest hell was not my Jesus my righteouness and my redeemer”. I think that deserves an Amen. Amen.  our passage today which is in 1 peter 3, 1 peter 3, 1 peter 3. 

While you’re turning there, lets talk about our people group of the week. The Moroccan arabs of Spain. Across the southern parts of spain there are a lot of arabs, especially Moroccan arabs. Moroco and spain area geographically really close, and in fact there are three little – they call them plazas, three little teensy bits of sovereign Spanish territory in morocco. So naturally like with Mexico and Texas, or florida and cuba, there over time develops a significant community of people who have immigrated to their new homeland. In spain, much of southern spain is heavily influenced by Moroccan culture, and the muslim religion. This interchange of people has been going on for at least 1300 years, and so much of the Spanish language has been influenced by Arabic as well. Just like in any other area where Muslims have influence it’s a challenge to be a Christian. Spain however has other challenges. Spain is increasingly a post Christian nation. That is to say they may consider themselves Christian, though in truth they are closer to agnostic. Something is out there, and maybe it’s the god of the catholics, or maybe not. In terms of being catholic, those who are catholic tend to be on the extreme fringe of Catholicism. Not in a good way either, they tend to be firmly lost in the worship of Mary. There is a cathedral in spain that has a sculpture of baby Jesus crowning mary with a crown of thorns. It’s a perversion of scripture and it’s a pervasive sentiment. So unlike countries like our own, where there is a healthy church that can and should be reaching out to the muslims in the community, the Spanish church is struggling and largely dying off. 78% of the Spanish population claim to be catholic Christians, but 58% of the total Spanish population also claim to be agnostic. You cant be a Christian and an agnostic at the same time. You can’t be a protestant and a catholic at the same time. It doesn’t work. The most important statistic is 3%. 3% of the Spanish population believe that its important to attend church (any church – catholic, protestant or muslim). Who will pray for the Spanish church, and the Moroccan arabs in spain? 

Alright lets read our passage, 1 peter 3:8-18. 

Firstly lets look at the Greek word for “unity of mind”. The Greek word, is actually still in use today, and has been coopted by the English language, and while there has been some meaning shift over time it still is a decent representation of what was being said back then. The Greek word is Homophone. In English the word homophone is used to represent two words that are similar in pronunciation, or sounds. For instance, the part of your body called an Eye, the organ that helps you to see, and the word that represents the totality of you the word “I” are homophones. Even though one is speaking of the organ, and the other is speaking of your totality, they still sound the same eye and I, and are therefore homophones. In the original Greek, the meaning was a little more comprehensive. Homophone meant more than just sounding alike, it meant to be thinking the same way, and sounding the same way. It meant that the totality of the church was being the same way – in word, deed, and thought. It means something deeper than just unity of thought, though that’s included. We are to be united in thought, in spirit, and in truth. One of my dictionaries – Louw-Nida, says the same attitude. The rest of our passage describes what that attitude is to be, and give the reasoning for it. 

So we are to be united, and express sympathy. What is sympathy? To comfort the hurting. What about brotherly love? That Greek word is one probably most of us have heard preached on at some point in our lives, or at least we’ve heard of the city named after the word. The word is Philadelphos. In Greek in general the word means love for the “in-crowd”. But the new testament takes that word and adapts it a bit, any time its used in the new testament, its used to indicate the love we ought to have for our brothers and sisters in christ. Family type love. Parents, how much do you love your kids? Your parents? Your brothers and sisters? Is there much you wouldn’t do for them? Even if it is hard, and unpleasant, wouldn’t you do your best for them? Even marching into awkward territory to help them? I’m thinking specifically about situations where families have had to have interventions. Sitting down with someone, and speaking hard truths – usually tied to addiction. Its hard to tell someone they are a drug addict and that they are out of control. But when you love someone, that’s what you do. SO we comfort the afflicted, and afflict the comfortable. We do so without regard to how it will affect us. When were tired and don’t feel like it, we do it any way. Moms, how many soccer games, or karate practice or recitals have you been to, that you just didn’t feel like going to. But you went because you love your child and knew it was good for them. This is brotherly love. 

Speaking of brotherly love, a pastor friend was telling a story this week – he’s a pastor of a church in Washington, and he got this letter this week “Dear Pastor, I started attending McLean Bible Church about the time you started to preach on a semi-regular basis.  At that time, I was still healing from my parents’ passing and an unexpected divorce.  I was living alone without any family in the area.  Through the help of a pastor, I was connected to a community group led by John and Ashley.  I was the first single person without children grafted into their group.  It’s been almost two years that I’ve been part of this family.  Not long after I met them, I was laid off and had to return my company car.  John and Ashley insisted that I used their car until I could land a new job and while I looked for a car to purchase.  I asked them when they wanted it back and they responded, “Whenever.  We’re not worried about it.”  They said their car was a blessing from God and they wanted to bless me by having a vehicle to drive.  Thank God that I was able to get a new job within a few weeks.“Fast forward six months.  Several group members offered to help me tackle neglected projects around my homeafter the divorce.  An army of them came to my house in waves.  They purchased furniture, laid downsod, planted bushes in front, picked weeds, pruned rose bushes in the backyard.  They replaced old and weathered lighting fixtures,moved my router, purged, organized and more.  Their love and support brought me to tears.“In March of this year I became unemployed again, this time due to Covid.  A few months ago I was about to run out of money.  Several group members helped me pay some of my bills.  I promised to pay them back,but they told me not to worry about it.  John and Ashley were faithful for over a month to make sure I had groceries.  They either took me shopping or would shop for me.  Most important of all, they were praying for me.  God blessed me with a new position on September 28; His timing is perfect.”This email goes on, talking about how much she has learned from God'sWord from John and Ashley.  How she has seen God’s love through this group, through their marriages, families, love for neighbors, involvement in outreach.  Then she writes:“Because my family is in Florida, I decided to stay in northern Virginia for Thanksgiving.  John and Ashley asked me weeks before to join them.  They have become my local family.”Then she asks at the end, “What would our church and city look like if we had these types of relationships and groups scattered over the most powerful city of the world?
How much different indeed. 

The next word is “tender heart”. Like the other words we’ve covered so far, I looked it up, and you know what the Greek word for tenderhearted literaly translates to? Healthy intestines. Having healthy intestines. In the day the bible was written, they believed that your emotions came from your intestines. Especially the stronger of the emotions, like love and anger. So when they tell you to be tender hearted, or to have healthy intestines, it’s telling us to temper our anger – to have only healthy amount and only righteous anger, and to be loving. The bowels were also believed to be where Pity came from. So they would use the word splonknitzomai to refer to being moved with pity, with compassion, with mercy. Tender-hearted tends to fall short. The dictionary says that tenderhearted means to be sentimental, kind, and gentle. I agree that kind and gentle are included in this, but that the Greek word is much more robust – we should exhibit biblical and healthy love, biblical and healthy anger, biblical and healthy amounts of pity. Healthy intestines. Splonknon. Its once more talking about putting others first. We know this because of vs 9 – lets read vs 9 again. When evil is done against us, how are we to respond? If someone kicks you in the shin – what is our response to be? Bless them. Someone robs you? bless them. Someone steals your grandfathers tools? Bless them. Someone tears up your lawn and your drive way with their car, then bless them. What if you think someone is taking advantage of the situation? Do you argue and yell? No you bless them. Sometimes that’s going to be with money, or time, or service, sometimes that’s going to be from your knees in prayer. I think from your knees in prayer is the best way to bless someone most of the time. Unless God wants you to bless them in a different way, then do so. 

But I find myself once more asking – as the lady who wrote the letter did, how much different would our world look if we loved each other biblically. 

Putting others first means putting yourself second. Our society tells us to put ourselves first. That what we want, and desire, and what looks pleasurable should be our priority. The pursuit of happiness has eclipsed this biblical others-first mentality. 

Pastor plat asked a series of questions of his church on this topic. He asked:

Do other people in the church see this kind of biblical love in you? People beyond your home? Your closest friends? Maybe people who are even less like you? Do they see this kind of Biblical love in your life?
Are you loving like the world? Or are you loving folks that way God has commanded us to through his word? 

Now, don’t be confused here. This doesn’t mean accept abuse. It doesn’t mean a police officer has to put down his gun, and not protect the community. It doesn’t mean a soldier can’t follow lawful orders. Any thing can break down if you push it too far. 

“David plat wrote of psalm 34:15 which says“For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous,and his ears are open to their prayer...” This is a picture of intimacy in relationship with God which is the key to the good life.  But then, listen to how verse 16 ends:  “But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”In other words, if we don’t love like God has designed us to love, we will miss the good life and experience the opposition of God.  God is saying to us today, “My face will be against you when you do evil.  When you respond to evil with evil, My face will be against you.”  The same thing goes for the other things listed in verse eight.  Humility? God makes clear throughout His Word that He opposes the proud.  When you are prideful, you will experience the opposition of God Himself.  Tender, sympathetic, brotherly love?  God opposes anyone who treats His children harshly.  Unity of mind?  God opposes those who divide His people.  In other words, God takes radical love in His church very seriously in this world and it all hinges on the hope of Jesus” in the next. 

Jesus is our example for this biblical – David plat calls it “Radical” love.

Leading up to his death on the cross, he was falsely tried – the jewish authorities were paying for witnesses against Jesus. They had to have two that said the same thing, and they hired that done. When Jesus rights were being trod upon – did Jesus stand up for himself? No he stood up for us. He was almost completely silent, and didn’t defend himself. When he heard the sentence – 39 lashes with a cat of 9 tails, he could have called down a legion of angels to defend himself, but he didn’t, he didn’t stand up for himself, because he was standing up for us. When he was being mocked, he could have told them off, he could have caused their molecules to no longer stick together, he could have had them dispatched by an army of angels, but he didn’t stand up for himself, because he was standing up for us. He was loving us. He knew that the worst this world had to offer was a sunny day in paradise compared to the worst yet to come for those who “Get what they deserve”. The only thing any of us truly deserve is to spend an eternity in hell. Yet God being rich in mercy sent his son, to take our punishment upon himself. Jesus went willingly to be born in a manger, mocked, falsely accused, beaten, and ultimately crucified upon a cross to satisfy his fathers wrath against your sin and mine. 

People get all uptight about hell. Hell is a reality. People get mad at God for “sending people to hell”. Truth is, if that was precisely how it worked, God would be justified in doing that. The truth is more complicated. He gave us free will, which we damaged through sin, and then some will choose to reject God all the way to their death. Those who choose to reject God all the way to their death will be in hell by their own choice. God did all the hardest parts if you reject Him, your eternal destination will be hell, and it will be hell by your choice.  Be sure that you know that you know that you know where you are going to go when you take that last breath. 

Christian, part of brotherly love is having gospel conversations with your lost friends and family. If you love them, you’ll tell them about Christ. Their eternity is at stake! Part of loving your brother will mean leaving a generous tip on the table for your waitress. Did you know the worst day to be a waitor or waitress is Sunday at lunch? They hate it. Christian leave them those fake 20$ bill tracts. If you’re leaving tracts that’s a good thing, but if you’re going to leave a fake 20$ bill tract, but a real 20$ bill there with it. scripture says they will know you are Christians by your love, but right now they know we are Christians by our lack of adequate tips. Service workers hate taking care of Christians too, because they poor mouth, and plead for folks to do the same job they do for the world at better rates. We need to be loving these people, and that includes good tips, paying them what they earn. If someone shorted you 50$, and then tried to tell you about Jesus, would that make you more or less likely to read the tract? What does that say about your priorities and the priorities of other Christians? Saving 20$ or 100$ or 1000$ is not worth giving Christ a black eye. 

Living for eternity puts a whole different spin on things. If you knew you were in trouble, but only till Thursday it would make the mean time easier to endure. Well folks, in this world you will have trouble, Jesus says in John 16:33, but take heart, for I (Jesus) have over come the world. Even if it takes 100 years to get to glory with Jesus, that next world is the one we live for. Set aside your rights now, and be rewarded in glory. Live like you’re leaving. We are eternal being having a temporal experience. We won’t be here long, so don’t store up your treasures here. Send them on ahead. 

There are lots of places this could go. But I think most importantly, 

For those of you whove been to church, but have never made Jesus your Lord I want you to think about this: 
New years eve, this family was on their way to publix down in trinity, they had their whole life in front of them they thought, and yet in that moment, a car speeding down the highway on their way to the hospital smashed into them and sent one person on to eternity. That person probably thought they had tomorrow. But they didn’t. Life Is so fragile. Someone is facing God, and the only thing that’s going to matter is whether or not your name is written in the lambs book of life. 

Gospel.
