David is such a massive figure that I feel like we would be remiss if we didn’t talk about him at least a little bit. I hate skipping Ruth, and talking about how Boaz was her kinsman redeemer, a function Christ fulfilled for us through his life and death on the cross. Making the church his bride. 

But there is time for that in the future  

for today turn with me to 1 Samuel ch 16. Were going to be reading about David’s calling this morning. David grew up in a little town called Bethlehem. It was tiny, despite being relatively well know to the people of that time. Warren Weirsbe compiled a list of things that happened there prior to this point: Jacobs wife Rachel died in childbirth for Benjamin there, the whole story with Ruth and Boax happened here, In fact Boaz was David’s Great grandfather. Interestingly enough, David’s great great grandmother was another woman of note. Perhaps you’ve heard of the woman named Rahab – the prostitute that helped the spies at Jericho. God can use anyone, despite their baggage, despite their history. David of course would make the city famous, as would Christ after him. Christ is also a descendent of David. The citys name means house of bread and was so named because it was prophesied that one day Living bread would come from heaven and dwell in human flesh. 

Lets read our passage tonight: 1 sam 16:1-13

One thing that sort of surprised me was right at the end of the passage. In vs 13 it says that David’s anointing stayed with him for the rest of his life, or “from that day forward”. To this point in the history of the world, when the holy spirit rested on someone it was only for a short time. Remember reading in judges, the story of Samson in the book of judges? Five or six times in that story the bible says “and the spirit of the lord came upon Samson mightily”.  Even the judges did not have the same access to the holy spirit that we have today. Sometimes the Holy Spirit would descend upon them – when they needed it – and then the holy spirit would pull back after the crisis was over. 

Time and time again we see this descending of the holy spirit, and retraction when the crisis passes. 

But this does not seem to be the case with David. David was special! In this time period God sending his Holy Spirit down was sort of like suddenly becoming Iron Man. Have you guys seen those movies? In the last movie with iron man, any time Tony Stark was in trouble his iron man suit would come flying out at rocket speeds so that it could catch him, or help him fight, or fly, or save someone. Without the suit he would have died a dozen times over. But with the suit he had access to information through the suits computer, defense systems, assault systems. The suit basically gives him access to power he wouldn’t have otherwise had. In samson’s case it was physical strength. In david’s it was likely battle prowess and wisdom. Remember the little rhyme that was sung of david? Saul has killed his thousands, but david his ten thousands? David had a certain prowess in battle that led him to be decisively the victor. I’m sure David was great, but anytime something is better than great – better than a normal man can accomplish in his own strength there is reason to believe the Holy Spirit was behind it! He’s even present sometimes through the mundane things, or the things we think are failures. I am reminded of that story you’ve heard a dozen times from my dad where he was on his way home from work, and saw his friends car at a bar. She’d been skipping church for a few months and he was worried about her so after several miles of argument with God he turns around and walks in and awkwardly says hi, and then leaves. 

A year later he found out she was on the cusp of committing suicide, and had just prayed that if God still loved her, he’d send her a message when my dad walked in. You never know how the Lord is going to use you, even when you feel like you’ve failed. Sometimes knowing you’ve failed is the best place to be, because it keeps us humble, and it allows the credit to go where it needs to go – right straight to God. When we are at are weakest, most distracted, and are experiencing failure, God is using that to his own glorious ends. Even if, especially when we can’t see it. God is so good. He even uses our failures to his glory. Anyway, that’s a rabbit trail. Point is David had a blessing from God in the form of the Holy Spirit. We have that same blessing today. At the moment of salvation the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of us. He begins washing us, renewing our hearts and minds. He begins sanctifying us – drawing us ever closer to God. He counsels us, he puts words in our mouths sometimes that speak to the heart of the matter in ways we can’t even imagine. Sometimes its even to prick the consciences of people in our midst when we don’t even realize their consciences needs pricked. 

Point is God calls David a man after his own heart right? Its not because David was perfect in obedience is it? Because we know David had problems. We know about his dalliance with Bathsheba, and the subsequent murder to cover it up. We know he was at best a bad father to his children, and that inspired them to attempt coups, to kill each other, one of his kids raped another of his kids and framed the girl as the aggressor. David wasn’t a great dad, and he had a lot of flaws. So his obedience to God could not have been perfect. I think It was davids faithful, humble, reverent, trusting, loving, devoted, repentance to the Lord. Sure he messes up. Who hasn’t. But he is quick to repent, and grieves his sin, and through it all worships God. 

I love what our passage tonight says about God too. Who was david at this point? He was the last son of a shepherd. He likely had never been tought to read or write. He grew up in the fields with farm animals. He was not a man of the city, or of culture. He’d likely be a little coarse, and uncouth. He’s descended of a Moabite woman, of a prostitute from Jericho. He would have been barely more than half Israelite, 25% Moabite, and about 12 percent Jericho. You remember who the Moabites are right? Remember Lot and his daughters? After his wife was turned to stone, the daughters Got lot drunk and made babies? One of those was named moab, and his descendants became the Moabites. Point is David was basically no one. Descended of the lowest of the low, and engaged in agrarian pursuits. Nothing in his life so far had prepared him to be king. Nothing. He wasn’t even the best looking amongst his brothers. Samuel thought his other seven brothers each in turn would surely be the one God would choose. Yet God chooses the humble things, the things that are not, the things that are despised to humble those that are something, so that no man may boast before God 1 cor 1:28-29. Paul writes let him who boasts boast in the Lord. I have this picture of david being a young sort of back woods hillbilly redneck of questionable background. Probably smelled like sheep. Might have not showered in weeks. Probably had wild hair, and beard. Yet this is who God chose to lead the nation of Israel. Vs 7 tells us why: For the Lord sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. 

I think the point here is that God can use any one to accomplish his will. None of us are too old, or too young, or too fat, or too much of anything. What matters is not skin color, or ability, or talent. God didn’t choose the person best suited for administration, he didn’t call the greatest warrior of the day – though david with the Holy Spirits aid became that – He didn’t choose someone who had been educated, and groomed, and not even someone tall like Saul. Being tall was a big deal back then. He chose a lowly shepherd of questionable heritage and no learning to lead his people. If God can lead his people into a golden age under a smelly uneducated country bumpkin, what can God use you to do? Maybe he won’t ask you to lead a nation – I hope none of you have to do that. But maybe he will use you as a key part of a loved ones salvation. We all have loved ones in our lives whose salvation is a question mark do we not? Or some who we know are not yet saved. Maybe God’s going to use you in a mighty way in their life. He’s always letting us go through things to learn and grow and be shaped and molded. Maybe some of those lessons you learn on the way are going to be just the thing that loved one needs to hear at some point along their faith journey. Maybe just maybe how the Lord sustained Dottie through the time with her leg will be just the thing someone – maybe someone she loves needs to hear to be saved. 

God is intentionally shaping us to fit the job he has for us. We in America have this idea that once we reach a certain age we have done enough and can retire. But I don’t think that’s true in service to God. We never stop being a part of his plan, or being a tool in his hand. As long as we are still breathing God still has work for us. Still has a plan for us. 

I was listening to a sermon a while back by a relatively famous guy, and he said God’s purpose for us is four fold, he then went on to give three reasons. I got a chuckle out of that. But its an encouraging thing you know? These people that God are using in mighty ways today are still people just like us. Any way, Stanleys 3 purposes are as follows: 

1. To know God’s word. One of God’s greatest desires is for us to have a deep abiding relationship with Him. One of the ways we can do that is through the reading of God’s love letter to us. Encouraging this is part of why we are doing this read through the bible in a year plan. There are so many benefits to us when we read God’s word – Guidance, protections, warnings of danger, our minds are renewed and thoughts transformed to more closely reflect God’s. 

2. To Keep God’s commands.
This is an over flow of the first. As we come to know the Lord through his word and our thoughts and minds are transformed we begin to desire the things of the Lord instead of the things of the world. So we naturally begin to desire to keep God’s commands. In the same way the first leads into the second, so the second leads into the third. Because if we are even keeping a part of the word of God, then we are going to be different from the world around us. We will stand out to those who are lost and looking for something to fulfill them. They will see the hope and joy in us, and be drawn to it like a moth to the flame. When they arrive, if were keeping Gods commands, we will be sharing the gospel with them. 

3. Is to be actively involved in evangelism. 
Both of the first two things happen out of an overflow of God’s love for you, and your love for God. These both develop and deepen over time. But this third one comes from the same place. If you love someone, how can you not tell people about him? How he’s worked in your life, and the things he’s taught you. Like with Dotties book. Its an overflow of what God has been doing in her life written down on paper for others. If you are loving God like you should be, you’ll naturally want to share the gospel – share the truth of God’s love for you with others. If you’ve never met Jesus, than hearing and responding to the gospel is your first step, and I’ll give you a chance to do just that in a few minutes. 

But first I want to add a fourth purpose. I suspect it was where Andy Stanley would have gone if he’d finished his fourth point. Like the other three, it is a loving response to God’s love lived out in our lives. 

4. Worship God in Spirit and in Truth.
John 4:24 points this out. It says “24 God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.” When we are truly saved, and begin to feel God’s love for us, to quote the hymn it tunes our heart to sing God’s praise. We demonstrate this in our attention and devotion to God’s word. To our obedience to his commands and precepts in his word, and in sharing the gospel with the Lost. Worship is more than just singing – though it is that – worship is a way of life that gives glory to God, and reflects God’s glory into the world. We give glory to God by focusing on our relationship with God. We reflect God’s glory by living in accordance with God’s word, and sharing the gospel with those who do not yet know Jesus as their savior.
David was chosen by God even if he didn’t have any other redeeming qualities all on his own. He’s chosen all who respond to him. You have a chance to do that today. In just a moment the praise team is going to come up and sing another song, and if you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve
Finally though, if you’ve never come to a point where you’ve met Christ. Then today is the day. 

Gospel
