1 thess 3
1 thess 3:12-4:8
One thing I’ve always liked about this church, one thing I’ve always tried to be a part of Is how quickly people are to demonstrate their love for each other in acts of service. This one isn’t feeling well, so that one steps up and is helping out. I got to be part of a chain like that yesterday. Someone was going to help another one, they needed food. But didn’t have a ride, so I offered to give a ride to the grocery store not knowing that I was helping one person, help a second person. As a church, people are quick to offer to cook meals, or do what is needed to help each other. To help paint. Or whatever it is. One of you wants to know when were going to paint, not so that they can help paint, because they can’t climb ladders, but because they want to bring food over for us while we paint.
things like that. Most of you Remember Larry of Larry and Judy, Judy of course recently passed away. But Larry when he would get back home, would always be bragging on us, telling them “I was packing up to go, and I needed help, and people from the church came and helped me. They helped me tie down tarps, and get everything prepared as though for a hurricane, because we were going out of town. Or when they were here for the first tropical storm, someone called them and offered to help them prepare for it. Larry said a few times churches up north just aren’t like that. When we tell people we love them, we are willing to follow through with acts of service as our resources allow. It’s a beautiful thing. Three men in the church once upon a time had committed to each other to help each other rebuild if anything happened to one of the others homes. All three were capable builders. All three canceled their insurance. Two have passed on, and the third now lives in Texas. But had anything ever happened they would have been right their for each other and right their for us too, to the extent that they could be.
We love each other. We do what we can to help each other – it’s a beautiful thing.
I think this is part of the picture of the kind of love that is in view in our passage today.
lets read it.
Vs 12 starts with may the Lord make your love increase and over flow for each other.
What Does that kind of love look like in practice? Of course my mind goes straight to the 1 corinthians 13 passage. The Corinthians had a problem with love. Paul addresses that, and explains to them what love is, he says” – love is patient, love is kind, love does not envy, or boast, it isn’t arrogant, or rude, or proud, it is not iritible, or resentful, it does not rejoice in wrong doing, love rejoices with the truth, it bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, love never ends.
Which is a high standard to bear right? Just think about love is patient. What does patient mean? It’s a kind of long suffering right? Putting up with something you don’t necessarily have to, for an extended period. Its talking about difficult people, in difficult situations. A pastor named Smith, wrote “Love expands your capacity to put up with difficult people and desperate situations.”
He went on to say “Living in this world, you have to develop the capacity to handle the injuries, disappointments, frustrations, let-downs, conflicts, and offenses that you will experience throughout the course of your life.
How do you develop that capacity? How do you live in a world like this, when people will wrong you and disappoint you in so many ways?
Answer: Love will give you the capacity to suffer long. Growing in love will give you the resilience you need to live in this fallen world.”
Its about putting other people first. You first, me second.
Secondly Love is kind and does not envy, I’m going to run these together a little bit. If being patient is about putting other people first, so is being kind, and not envying.
Kindness carries with it an element of generosity, generosity puts others first, envy says I’m discontent because of what you have. Whats that start with? I. Not others. I.
If you run into someone from school, and its obvious they are doing better than you, envy allows that to make you upset, kindness, rejoices to God with them for their success.
Love then is the antidote for envy.
Next was boasting, pride and self seeking, or putting yourself first .
Johnathan Edwards wrote “A person of selfish spirit is ready to make much of the afflictions that he himself is under, as if his privations or sufferings were greater than those of anybody else.”
We all have met people like that right? Some people aren’t happy unless they have something to complain about. Someway they are being wronged. Some way they are suffering. I had a friend whose daughter was dying of cancer. Precious little girl. Maybe three years old. He told me a story about how one of his friends came to the hospital, and spent 4 and a half hours with my friend. Ostensibly he was there to comfort my friend. But he managed to make it all about himself instead. He talked at length about his own personal recent medical diagnosis. How he had this terrible foot fungus. For four and a half hours. While my friend was sitting there reeling from the news that his daughter likely would never live long enough to graduate kindergarten, much less to homecoming, and prom, and he’d never get to walk her down the aisle. His heart is breaking, while his selfish friend’s foot was stinking that place up.
Some people boast in their troubles. If you’re going to boast, boast in the lord.
Not in your own self, or pridefully of your own accomplishments, or speak self centerdly about your own suffering. My friend, needed a friend. His friend was just trying to distract him, and didn’t know what to say. But at the end of the day, what he said wasn’t very loving.
Love, putting others first, in that situation, might have meant not talking at all, and giving your friend a chance to talk. Just being there to listen.
One of the most loving things I remember from when my own father was in the hospital after his stroke, was someone brought a whole huge bag full of coffee and donuts for us. I’m not a huge donut person, I like them, but I try to avoid that much sugar, but those donuts kept us from having to leave the room and maybe miss whatever the doctor would say if he came out while we were gone. Those were the kindest and best donuts we had ever eaten. We were and are grateful. It freed us to be where we needed to be, without worry. It was wonderful.
Real love has a genuine interest in other people. It puts yourself in their shoes, and doesn’t boast in your struggles or victories. It meets them where they are at, with what they need.
maybe its donuts. Maybe it’s a ride to the store, maybe it’s a bag of groceries. Maybe it means climbing on a roof and pulling down some branches. Maybe its just sitting there quiet, and listening well.
Next Love isn’t rude. I think that’s a hard one. When people let you see them argue, rudeness is a go to move for most in our culture. Saying things to each other intended to cause pain is a go to.
I was walking in a parking lot, and a guy wearing a US ARMY Vietnam VETERAN hat, almost ran me over. He finished loading his groceries in the car, popped it in reverse, and wasn’t paying attention to the fact people were walking through the cross walk behind him. He wasn’t paying attention, but I was, and he came closer than I’d like to hitting me. I scrambled out of the way, and he had his window down. So I said “careful”, and he hopped out of that car with every bit of spit and vinegar he possessed and started screaming and yelling at me to “go back to my country”. I gently pointed out that part of my family came over on the mayflower. I guess if I have to go back, so does everyone. He insulted my intelligence, called me the N word, a snowflake, and just kept going like that. Here in Hudson, at the Hudson Winn Dixie. I told the story to one of my friends, who was an army veteran, and he was looking pretty ashamed, so I stopped telling him the story, and asked what was up, and he said “if that guys going to be a jerk, he should take off his army veteran hat first”. Christians we do that too don’t we? We go around with our jesus bumper stickers, blasting Christian radio, and then cut someone off in traffic, or speed, or shoot the bird at someone? Is that the kind of thing that God likes to see his children do? Do you think that makes God proud of us? Is that behaving with the kind of others centric love that Paul is prescribing for the Corinthians, or describing in the Thessalonians? Certainly not. Another area we do this in, is tipping. As I understand it the young men and women that serve our food are fairly dependent upon tips. That 100$ meal you ate, they are taxed based on the receipts, so that hundred dollar meal, the government says “hey you sold 100$, you had to have been paid 15”. Of that 15, they could owe – depending on how they do their taxes, as much as 30% of that. So when you sit somewhere and have a 100$ meal, and don’t leave a tip, in practice they just paid as much as 5$ to serve your ungrateful unloving self. Did you know waitresses – and I have a number of them in my family. Including my grandmother, grandma baker was a waitress – just one of her three jobs that she worked to raise her kids. Waitresses hate working Sundays the most, because people who go to church will leave them tracts, and not tips. Here they are trying to feed their family, depending on you, to pay for their time, and you end up taking 5$ out of their food budget for their kids. If you can’t afford to leave a good tip, you really can’t afford to go out. If you don’t leave a tip, don’t leave a tract. If you charge them 5$ for the priveledge of serving you for an hour, what are they going to think about that fake 20$ bill tract that you left on the table? What will that make them think of your Jesus?
Grow in love, By being the opposite of rude. Be courteous, and considerate. Using polite words. Being courteous carries with it the idea of dicretion. Just because you know something about someone, doesn’t mean you should always say it.
Always say it, if it will protect a child. Always say it if it will save someones life, or eternity.
But if it is being said to make you feel relevant to the conversation, or elevate your self somehow, or for a whole host of other bad reasons, you’re better off just keeping your mouth shut. Love is courteous, and courtesy is discreet when it needs to be.
Next love is not easily angered, and it keeps no record of wrong. One of the commentators said it this way “love practices restraint”.
Colin Smith wrote “Love is not easily provoked, not irritable, not touchy, and not easily upset or offended”. Ever known someone you had to walk on egg shells around, so that you didn’t provoke them, or make them iritible, or upset? I think we all have. People you can’t speak freely around for fear of upsetting them.
Jonathan Edwards writes “If a person allows himself long to hold anger towards another, he will quickly come to hate him. And so we find that it actually is among those that retain a grudge in their hearts against others for week after week, and month after month and year after year. They do in the end truly hate the person against whom they thus lay up anger, whether they own it or not.
He continues to write specifically to those who are easily angered. Ask yourself, “What good has been obtained by your anger, and what have you aimed at in it?” Because maybe all your distemperate spirit has done is cause another to stumble in anger. To make them hate. To make them sin. Your sin might be causing your brother or sister to stumble.
Keeping no record of wrong is hard one, and a form of restraint also. I have neighbors that I’ve told you about, that area frequently doing things to cause me damage. I don’t want to recount the stories of how I’ve been wronged while saying to keep no record of wrong. If you’ve been around a while you’ll have heard those stories as they happened. One thing pastor Bob was quick to suggest in a crisis was to keep good records. If you think it could go to court, especially, keep detailed records. Spoke to so and so, on this date, at this time, I said xy and z, and he said abc. So when things started to happen, I decided based on that advice to make a log of the things that had happened, that I could verify, that they had done.
I ended up with a list of over 2500$ in damages. I kept up with it for a few weeks, but the list just made me angrier and angrier every time I looked at it. Every time I added to the list, my love for my neighbors decreased.
So eventually I burned it. I don’t want to be an angry person. Rehearsing the harms that I had experienced only made things worse for me. It wasn’t loving, it wasn’t fun. It wasn’t a joyful experience. But it was a record of wrong. So I got rid of it, locked up the most important things, and decided not to worry about the rest.
Love was bookends in our chapter today, the middle part, which we will touch on briefly, before we close, talked mostly about avoiding sexual immorality of all kinds. It also had a general call to purity. Sexual immorality is sex before or outside of marriage, and because of the world we live in today, sex with someone of the same gender is also based on the biblical standard, sexual immorality.
In todays world, most people have engaged in sexual immorality in the past. But there is forgiveness in God! And he blesses obedience.
But a fresh start begins with the gospel.
