Were going to spend another week in 1 tim 2, if you’ve brought your bibles and I hope you have. Please open there with me. While you’re turning there I want to talk about the Dhanuk people of India.
People group of the week. (from Joshua Project)
The Dhanuk build their houses in clusters in the river basins and on the edges of forests. They are occupied with fishing and animal husbandry, and many earn their livelihood by working as agriculture laborers and household servants. Dhanuks believe in magic, witchcraft and ghosts. They are divided into two groups in terms of religion: those who worship Kali are called Kaliyaha and others are called Maharkhiya.
The Dhanuk community speaks nearly 30 languages. Evangelistic and church planting projects need to accommodate these language subdivisions.
Being of a low caste, the standard of living is low, and they are often unable to meet their own basic needs. Pray for their salvation, and that their physical needs would be met.
Who will pray?
I imagine by now most of you have read the news about our President having covid? I was disheartened this week to see people that call them selves Christians cheering because he’s sick. These are actual comments that I read on ABC news facebook page when it was announced that the leader of the free world, the man who God has chosen to be our president for our blessing or punishment, Joe Biden had covid.
I’m going sensor the language a little bit. Its both sides that need to be addressed on this topic. However its mostly the republicans that have been coming across my feed, so you’re going to hear more about them. Also I went back to copy them word for word, and the most offensive ones had already been taken down. However.
I saw someone write “thank goodness, maybe now he will die”. Saw so much profanity. People saying the Eff Joe Biden thing, followed by in Jesus name. So much hate. Someone wrote “I sure hope Covid succeeds where Jesus failed, I hope biden dies, and Trump becomes president”.
What part of Romans 13 does that fit under? It says Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. 2 Consequently, whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves.
There is no authority except that which God has established. You know who Paul was talking about? Nero.
There is no authority except that which God has established. You know who Paul was talking about? Nero.
We need to read our scripture for today, which is
We need to read our scripture for today, which is
Lets read. 1 tim 2:1-7
Prayer. We should be in prayer. We shouldn’t be mocking. We shouldn’t be making fun of. We should be praying for all of those in public office whether we agree with them or not. How do I know this?
Paul says so. Let me read again vs 1-2. You know what leader he’s talking about there? Emperor Nero. He was awful, and I don’t just mean his singing. He would at the tip of a spear force people to attend his recitals. Women would be trapped and give birth in the auditoriums. Men would fake death just to be carried out on gurneys. He was bad. But that wasn’t the worst of it. You see nero had a problem. His problem wasn’t so much with women like he thought it was, his problem was with sin. He loved sin. He hated holiness. So when he was bored of his wife, and wanting to marry the girl he’d been cheating with, his mother objected. This was so reprehensible to Nero that he staged a series of elaborate plots to kill his own mother. He tried to poison her and failed. He tried to stage elaborate accidents around her and failed. He even had a collapsible boat built that would sink beneath the sea while she was traveling, and kill her. But Nero’s mother escaped that too. Turns out she could swim. So he ended up taking hre out the old fashioned way, and had her clubbed to death. Nero had his own mother clubbed to death because she drew a moral line in the sand. Something she should have done much earlier in her life. To be frank. Any way, so she dies, and to celebrate, nero hosts these elaborate orgies where immorality is glorified. Two years after his mother was killed, he decided the time had come to put aside his faithful wife, and take up this other woman. So rather than just divorcing his wife Octavia, he decides to put her to death, and then when he decides his home is too small, he is believed to have set fire to the heart of the city of rome, and burned much of it down. Then built a house big enough to have an indoor lake, and a massive state of himself constructed. Burning down much of the city of rome seemed to be to most a line crossed that never should have been. SO Nero started looking for a scape goat and found it in the fledgeling Christian church. He blamed them, and started having them arrested, and tossed to the wild animals in the Colosseum. One of the more horrific things he did was dip live Christians in oil, impale them on a stake and set them on fire. Nancy Pelosi might be a lot of things, but she’s not impaling folks and burning them alive yet is she?
Yet what does Paul command Timothy’s posture to be towards Nero? He demands we offer “supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings … for all people, 2 for kings and all who are in high positions” .
When was the last time you prayed in earnest for your enemies in Washington? I don’t care if your enemy is Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi, Mitt Romney or the Donald. What does God want us to do? Supplicate, pray, intercede, and give thanksgiving.
I think that is a benchmark the church at large falls short of. Christians fall short of. Its easier to post nasty memes and make fun, than it is to stop, and spend a few minutes in prayer.
Romans 13:1-2 1 Everyone must submit himself to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. Consequently, he who rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves.
Said another way, everyone who mocks, and maligns, and
Said another way, everyone who mocks, and maligns, and in any way seeks to subvert the authority of ANY of the Leaders God has established is guilty of rebelling against God.
In mocking God’s choice of a leader, you mock God. If the church had mocked
In mocking God’s choice of a leader, you mock God. If the church had mocked nero, they would be in sin, just as much as we are when we mock the leaders God has put over us.
That doesn’t mean we can’t disagree.
That doesn’t mean we can’t disagree. We can’t have discussion, and debate. But don’t descend to the point where were calling names, and being disrespectful. That dishonors God, and isn’t behaving in a manner worthy of the price that was paid for you.
You’ll notice we aren’t just command to pray the once. Paul adds weight to the command to be in prayer for them by repeating different words for the same task over and over, four times he gives us a word for pray, he says we are to give our “
You’ll notice we aren’t just command to pray the once. Paul adds weight to the command to be in prayer for them by repeating different words for the same task over and over, four times he gives us a word for pray, he says we are to give our “supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings … for all people, 2 for kings and all who are in high positions”.
So the liberal supreme court justices what should we be doing for them? What about the conservative justices? What about the town mayor? What about the state senators? What about foreign leaders? The supreme leader of north Korea? What about the Russians? What about your pastor? Pastors of neighboring churches? Pastors of churches you disagree with? Youth pastors? Televangelists?
Get the idea? Pray for them. Not just simple platitudes –
Get the idea? Pray for them. Not just simple platitudes – its so easy to say and lord we pray for the president, and his cabinet, and move on to other things. Spend some time actually digging deep. Give supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings … for all people, 2 for kings and all who are in high positions. Pray for them.
That means when you have a president you love, you should pray for him. When you have a
That means when you have a president you love, you should pray for him. When you have a president you disagree with, you should pray for him. When you have a president you’re luke warm towards, what should we do? Pray.
Quick poll: is there anyone in leadership that we shouldn’t be praying for?
Quick poll: is there anyone in leadership that we shouldn’t be praying for?
Certainly not.
Certainly not.
Read vs 3-4 for me someone.
Read vs 3-4 for me someone. Whats it say? Think about the context there, what did he just say in the context of Nero as emperor. Hey church, I know Nero is persecuting you, he’s trying to kill you all because he wanted a bigger house, but pray for Nero because God’s desire is for Nero’s salvation.
Whats that mean for us? God desires Nancy Pelosi to follow him. God desires Alicia Ocasio-Cortez to come to a knowledge of the truth. God desires Donald Trump, if he doesn’t already to follow Christ. God desires even Joe Biden to come to a saving knowledge of his son. God desires everyone to follow His Son. To come to a more full and true understand of Christ, and what Christ did. To know God and who he is! God wants these things for us. In truth these things are out of our reach apart from God’s help any way, so be praying that God gets a hold of the heart of the political leader you dislike.
God wants us to pray towards these ends. We should be praying these things not just for our president, and the house, and the senate, and the supreme court, but for all the military leaders, for all the generals, and captains, and lieutenants, and majors. For police captains, and sergeants, and sheriffs. For doctors – who teach doctors. For professors, and principles. When was the last time you prayed for your kids, or grandkids principles and teachers? They have your kids and grandkids 8hrs a day every day. They have a huge roll in your kids lives. They should be people we hold up in prayer daily. For their salvation, that God would be making these teachers more like himself. That they would be discipled. You want to see our country change, start praying hard for the salvation of all of our teachers and leaders.
Not for our comfort, but for God’s glory!
Not for our comfort, but for God’s glory!
But maybe you’re here today, and don’t yet know Jesus as your savior. This next part is for you. Paul wrote vs 5 “there is but one mediator between God and man Christ Jesus who gave himself as ransom for all”.
But maybe you’re here today, and don’t yet know Jesus as your savior. This next part is for you. Paul wrote vs 5 “there is but one mediator between God and man Christ Jesus who gave himself as ransom for all”.
Lets start with one mediator. What is a mediator? If there is a dispute, you might call in a mediator to settle it.
If you default on a credit card, you might end up in court, or sometimes mediation. If you go to mediation, one side airs their grievances, and the other side works out what they can reasonably be expected to do to make things right.
If you default on a credit card, you might end up in court, or sometimes mediation. If you go to mediation, one side airs their grievances, and the other side works out what they can reasonably be expected to do to make things right. The mediator, hears both and works out a middle ground. Makes a path between the two. With God we owe him a debt we can’t ever hope to repay! So Christ came down and paid it all. So he is the only one we have to satisfy and please. He didn’t appoint pastors or priests as mediators, he says he is the mediator. I can point you to Christ, and I can point you to scripture, but I can’t absolve you of sin. That’s up to Christ to do. You have to talk to Christ about that. That’s what the bible says.
Not only is he the mediator, but he’s the sacrifice, and ransom for our sins. We owed a debt because of sin that we can’t ever hope to pay, and so Christ paid that with his life.
Not only is he the mediator, but he’s the sacrifice, and ransom for our sins. We owed a debt because of sin that we can’t ever hope to pay, and so Christ paid that with his life.
God is perfect holiness, and perfect justice, and perfect love, and perfect grace and mercy.
God is perfect holiness, and perfect justice, and perfect love, and perfect grace and mercy. So in order to make a way for us to be with him in paradise, he had to do something radical. Something that kept him from compromising any of his attributes. So he made a punishment that was worthy of the price of our sin – our death. He then sent his son to drink the cup of the totality of God’s wrath. He who knew no sin, became sin for us. Then he died on the cross, and rose again three days later.
You don’t have to go to a priest – Jesus wants you to go to him.
You don’t have to go to a priest – Jesus wants you to go to him. Its that easy.
Gospel
