This might be one of my least popular sermons. I shouldn’t start out that way, I can a public speaking class my first year of bible college, and this little 90 year old woman boomed from the lecturn NEVER start out anything in public speaking, with an apology. Ever. She was a sweet woman with a big heart, and that could command a room even at her advanced age. I was part of the last class she ever taught before her retirement.
She didn’t tell you this, but everyone in the class got an A just for turning in the homework. Didn’t have to speak well, didn’t have to test well, didn’t have to write well, you got an A. A+ was hard to get. A minus was easy to Get. B’s C’s and D’s meant you were a massive slacker. In any case she taught me a lot. Including to never start with an apology, andyet here we are. Dr Smith, I’m sorry. But were starting with an apology. This is a sensitive issue because of our culture, and because of our nature to push and fight against God’s established order. Everyone has that little rebellious streak in their heart. It sucks to have it addressed, and it sucks to have to address it. But I wouldn’t be a good pastor if I didn’t address it either when we encountered it in our naturally work through the scriptures like today, or else when if it had become an issue in the church that needed to be addressed. Anytime we rebell against God in anything, the issue is pride in our heart, the thought that we know better than God. But in truth do we ever know better than God? Is it even possible for us to know better than God? Certainly not.
And yet much of the time when we get upset its over that very issue. I know a woman whose approaching the end of her life, and there are a lot of decisions to be made about DNR and when and whether CPR is apropriate, or what not. So many decisions. I myself fell into a trap on these issues. I have been going around telling people that I don’t want to be on machines, just let me go. That’s how I feel, even still. But at the end of the day, regardless of the machines, or not. Regardless of heroic measures or not. Were going to live the exact number of days that God wants. We won’t go one minute before, or after that moment. Control is an illusion. We thinkg we can even control quality of life from here till the end, but in truth its by his pleasure that we live or die, and by his sovereign choice how we get to our end, and whether it be comfortable or uncomfortable. Whether that be easy or hard. That’s God’s call. Doctors are just doctors, they aren’t God. They know more than me certainly, without question, but they do not know more than God, and their opinion which is based on the best learning and wisdom of mankind and a life time of experience, is still that of a man, and not that of God. God sees the whole picture, Man sees but a tiny area. Doctors see more than most, are likely wiser than many to end up in the position they do. But they are not God.
So when I say just unplug me and let me go, its based in the thinking that we have any control over that. OR that we somehow have more control over that than God, and we don’t. If its not my time when you unplug me, I’ll keep going. And if it is my time it wouldn’t matter if you unplugged me or not, id be going home any way. When its your time, its your time, regardless. For some that’s probably scary. For others it’s a warm blanket. Even when we are asked to make decisions like that, the decision is ultimately out of our hands, and sits squarely in the capable palm of God’s hand.
We’ve all known people that were unplugged only to keep breathing. We’ve all known people who despite the best efforts of doctors and the best machines to support them, that died any way.
We have this thin illusion of control. But at the end of the day, that’s all it is. I saw a news article a few years back. This famous rapper, that I don’t follow made the news. You see had died 15 years earlier, and yet was scheduled to perform that night at this huge concert in California. Turned out they used a complicated mix of multiple projectors, computers, and specially made animatronic mannequin, dressed in the rappers clothes to create the illusion of Tupac being on stage. His presence was an illusion, but yet there he was dancing and looking like he was singing his heart out running back and forth across the stage doing things that he had loved before his death. But it wasn’t really him. It was just projectors, and computers. It was robots, and things done to trick the mind. He did look pretty convincingly human in the picture that I saw. But at the end of the day, his presence was an illusion, control is an illusion fully centered in the idea that we know better than God.
Any time we sin, we are saying to God “I know better than you”. Which is BOLD indeed!
Our text today is going to be in 1 timothy chapter 2. While you’re turning there I want to give a little context. This is not a lets jump on women and run them down passage. Paul had just finished being just as hard on the men. There is plenty of hard teachings intended for men through scripture. In our passage today, apparently men were fighting. Angry, quarrelsome men were present in this church. Can you imagine how distracting that would be? I went to a church a long time ago, and on my very first Sunday there this man named Buck stood up and started trying to scold the pastor mid sermon. Tried to shout him down. Was incredibly disrespectful, and I’d say was angry and quarrelsome. I think this church Timothy is serving at had men like buck in it. Today worship is one of the most controversial subjects out there. Should we sing songs by this person or that person in light of this activity or that belief. The modern day church – especially the reformed segment of the modern church is shouting no. Absolutely not. And yet so many of our hymns were simple bar songs with words updated to reflect scripture. Or further back. Remember the days of people like Bach and Mozart? If you wanted to be a famous musician and composer you were performing and writing what they called back then sacred music. Church music. It didn’t matter if you believed it or not. They would write it, and be paid for it by the church. What you ended up with was catchy music that had shallow theology in it. Who can tell me what theology is?
Its simply the thoughts of man about God. Shallow theology, means shallow thinking. Sometimes wrong thinking. In the context of a church unpinned from scripture, and instead pinned to the words of the pope, it created a place that allowed a lot of rot to seep in. Things that shouldn’t ever be. It was one of the reasons for the reformed protestants to come up with the idea that the only songs that should be sung are ones that are lifted word for word from scripture. They also limit the instrumentation, and so foth that can be used forgetting that David had a stringed instrument and a number of things like that. On the other extreme are folks that sing songs that are clearly secular, but they mention Jesus name in vane, and suddenly it’s a Christian song worth singing in church. As is so often the case, I think the truth is in the middle. Be careful in choosing what songs to worship to. Frequently as we sing so we think, and as we think so we do. Our worship affects our theopraxy, or the practical ways we act based on the things we believe. So its important to think rightly, to worship rightly, to know our bible inside and out. Its vital. We must let its words filter our thinking, and refine our beliefs. We must ensure the ways we worship outside of church are accurate to scripture.
We sing a few songs here, that are by bands that I wouldn’t recommend – hillsong specifically. The individual song is good, but the individuals singing the song might have been lost.
Any way, were on a rabbit trail. Things were causing controversy, and people specifically the men were throwing fits, getting angry, and causing quarrels. Paul comes down on them, and says they need to fly right. Much of last weeks passage was directed at the men too. Because some that Paul named in scripture were offbase and teaching things that didn’t line up with scripture. These things happened back in Pauls day, and they happen today. So Paul tells Timothy to fight the battle well, 19 holding on to faith and a good conscience. I like to think when Timothy preached the following week, that the men sat down, and quit arguing. That they quit teaching things that went against scripture, that they quit being angry and allowed the Word of God to wash their thinking in the ways they needed it to.
We are getting long in the tooth, and we need to read our passage. 1 Timothy 2, 8-15.
So the context here is that of a worship service. Is Paul saying men can’t argue in government? That they can’t have righteous anger towards injustice? Certainly not. Is he saying women can’t teach in public schools? Colleges? Universities? That women can’t teach in their homes? That a woman president couldn’t teach the nation to do better? Hes not saying that. He’s speaking to a specific context. The public mixed gender worship service of a church. Because we remember in the book of Titus that the older women are commanded to teach the women younger than them. So we know that this prohibition on teaching applies to mixed gender settings. Verse 12 is I think what causes people to bridle. It says “I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.”.
Bearing in mind the context here is limited to the public worship service leading and teaching are things based on other scriptures reserved for the pastor, elder, or overseer, which are words that are more or less talking about the same thing. A woman can’t – according to God’s word be the one teaching and leading during the worship service.
There are plenty of women that are doing these things. I used to recommend Beth Moore as an example of a woman who was an excellent teacher of women without crossing the line, but I saw recently that she has switched denominations because other denominations don’t take the word of God as seriously. I personally know women who have done just that here at this church. They asked me about what God said about women pastors, and I pointed them here and to a half dozen other passages, and ultimately they chose to worship somewhere else. They still support us, but they don’t worship with us. I’m glad they are still in church. But people have to do some bible gymnastics to get around this and all of the other passages that talk about women should be pastors. There are a LOT of women that are extraordinary administrators. I’ve worked for a number of them that were fantastic. Women have those giftings to lead in business, and for public speaking, and for teaching. Paul isn’t saying women cant work and serve in those capacities in secular contexts.
A lot of people men and women have a hard time with that. Our denomination takes a strong stance on it. I think there is a little nuance here that shouldn’t be neglected though. There were other good godly women that served in leadership roles within the church. The first one mentioned is Miriam the Prophetess (ex 15:20). She hid moses in the reeds, she arranged for pharaohs daughter to select Moses mother as his nurse. Moses went on to be the deliverer of the nation of Israel from the grips of Egypt which foreshadowed what Christ would do for us. When the Israelites crossed the red sea Miraim led the nation of Israel in worship.
Or Deborah who was the only female judge, and was also a prophet.
The Prophet Huldah had an important role in King Josiah’s Reformation of the country.
Not to mention Esther the queen who had the courage of her convictions to risk her life to save her people.
Or the fact that Jesus elevated women through his death. No one took the word of women seriously, and the first person Jesus appeared to after his resurrection was a woman.
Business women enabled the ministry of Paul in a number of places. Phoebe was a deacon.
At every step of the way through the new testament women were right there working along side the early church. Instrumental in spreading the gospel. In supporting the disciples, and even in teaching women – Priscilla is mentioned as being a great teacher of the gospel. There are absolutely lots of roles that women can be engaged in, within ministry. Almost every role. Except that of pastor. At the end of the day, God has reserved the role of preacher to men. But he reserved a special honor for women. One no real man could ever achieve. One that elevates all women.
One that came to women through Mary. The honor of bringing Jesus into the world. Who would ultimately do what moses and all men have failed to do across time. Jesus born of a virgin, lived a perfect and sinless life, and ultimately died on the cross for our sins, and then rose again from the dead three days later. Women helped bring salvation to the world in a way no one else could. It was an honor reserved for women, expressed through mary.
I can’t even imagine what it would have been like to be Jesus mother. Maybe mary got to kiss his booboos. We don’t know. But I’m sure she did the ancient equivalent of tucking him in at night, and held him when he was sick. She got to bring comfort, joy, and human experience to the Son of God himself. Which Paul says is an honor that extends to all women.
We men couldn’t have been involved in that if we tried , and every time God gave us a chance we, like adam, like moses, like noah, or David faild horribly. This isn’t an issue of men verse women, it’s a matter of Gods plan, and the roles he created for us. Equally important, and yet different, and all bringing glory and honor to him.
Paul bases this in the created order of things. I read an article this week that said this: The structure of 1 Timothy 2:11–14 makes the reason why women cannot be pastors perfectly clear. Verse 13 begins with “for,” giving the “cause” of Paul’s statement in verses 11–12. Why should women not teach or have authority over men? Because “Adam was created first, then Eve. And Adam was not the one deceived; it was the woman who was deceived” (verses 13–14). God created Adam first and then created Eve to be a “helper” for Adam. The order of creation has universal application in the family (Ephesians 5:22–33) and in the church.
The fact that Eve was deceived is also given in 1 Timothy 2:14 as a reason for women not serving as pastors or having spiritual authority over men. This does not mean that women are gullible or that they are all more easily deceived than men. If all women are more easily deceived, why would they be allowed to teach children (who are easily deceived) and other women (who are supposedly more easily deceived)? The text simply says that women are not to teach men or have spiritual authority over men because Eve was deceived. God has chosen to give men the primary teaching authority in the church.
Many women excel in gifts of hospitality, mercy, teaching, evangelism, and helping/serving. Much of the ministry of the local church depends on women. Women in the church are not restricted from public praying or prophesying (1 Corinthians 11:5), only from having spiritual teaching authority over men. The Bible nowhere restricts women from exercising the gifts of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 12). Women, just as much as men, are called to minister to others, to demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22–23), and to proclaim the gospel to the lost (Matthew 28:18–20; Acts 1:8; 1 Peter 3:15).
God has ordained that only men are to serve in positions of spiritual teaching authority in the church. This is not because men are necessarily better teachers or because women are inferior or less intelligent (which is not the case). It is simply the way God designed the church to function. Men are to set the example in spiritual leadership—in their lives and through their words. Women are to take a less authoritative role. Women are encouraged to teach other women (Titus 2:3–5). The Bible also does not restrict women from teaching children. The only activity women are restricted from is teaching or having spiritual authority over men. This precludes women from serving as pastors to men. This does not make women less important, by any means, but rather gives them a ministry focus more in agreement with God’s plan and His gifting of them.”
God elevates women all the time in scripture. But he holds just this one thing back. Likewise from men he held things back. Each of our roles is different, none are less worthy. None are less vital. Neither is less important to eternity, and to God. God ordered it this way for his reasons, and out of love for us, and its due to the way he created us to compliment each other. Things women are good at, frequently men are bad at. God has to tell men to love their husbands. He never has to tell women to love their husbands. They don’t struggle with that, and so we compliment each other.
The most important part though, is that those we love, and those we don’t come to know Jesus Christ. Which is a weighty responsibility that neither gender has been excused from carrying. We are to be involved in the spreading of the gospel. In telling people about Jesus. In discipling baby Christians.
For those of you that don’t know how to be a Christian, But god’s been working in your heart and you’re interested in knowing more, it starts with the gospel.
