2 chronicles 15

Introduction
Our passage tonight is one that is sometimes twisted to try and show salvation can be lost. You guys are smarter than that though, and I KNOW you know that somethings had to happen in the old testament that were superseded by different things in the new. Just like we no longer have to sacrifice animals to cover our sin. Christ was sacrificed to remove our sin, and now we are to present our bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God. But aren’t you glad you don’t have to keep sheep just so your sins are covered? What happens if you had the flu the day you were supposed to make your sacrifice and died without having made it? The laws were copious and complex. The requirements were firm and unbending. The law was a harsh and brutal task mistress. 

Likewise in the old testament economy of salvation there were other differences. God was in a way trying to teach human kind to look to him. He doesn’t normally turn to force against an individuals free will, but he certainly has that within the scope of his power. Instead he prefers to use a carrot and stick approach. If you follow me you will be blessed, and if you rebel, there are punishments. This is pretty thoroughly illustrated in our text tonight. A people are given a set of options. Follow God, and have peace, ignore God or worship other God’s and have trouble. As has been illustrated in passage after passage in the old testament, Gods punishments are severe, and his blessings are immeasurable. 

Ok Lets read 2 chronicles 15. 

1. Old Testament Salvation
So in the old testament we actually have a few different models. Or you might say we have two models, one that was there right from the beginning, and the other that continued to develop across the old testament. Lets talk about the second one first. That of course is the sacrificial system. Instituted by God with Adam and Eve, we see this was already common practice by the time of the story of Cain and Able. That’s why the one killed the other remember? One ignored the parameters God in his arrogance and pride. The other obediently lovingly gave his best. Little surprise one was rejected while the other embraced. In jealousy the rejected brother killed the brother God embraced. Humanity is in its infancy, and yet already we have people killing people. Human kinds depravity is on full display. In the human economy of evil, we generally put murder near the top of the list of evil things one person can do to another. God sees sin somewhat differently. But regardless, it’s a heinous thing. 

But this model continues to be developed. Turned out there were a lot of things that mankind could do that would displease god. The old testament has a total of 611-613 laws depending on how you want to count them. There were laws that governed ceremony, laws that governed their politics, their morality, diet, and a ton of things in between. God as our father had to spell out for us in great detail exactly what we had done wrong as a people. 

My nephew is like that. I had a conversation with him the other day, he had used one of his sisters toys. He played with it, I knew he had played with it. He left it out when he was done, and I knew only he had used it that particular day. He was home sick. There were no other kids home. Yet when I asked him about the toy, his response was “its lillys toy”. As though that made a difference as to whether or not he should pick up the toy. So I asked him again if he had used the toy. He looked me in the eye and said “But its LILLYS toy!” he declared it emphatically. Like that absolved him of having taken it out of where it belonged, played with it, and left it carelessly out. I had to sit there and in super careful, super explicit terms explain to him that because he had used the toy, not lilly, that he was responsible for picking it up, and putting it away when HE was done with it. Even so, he said but its not mine! 

Mankind at this point in our history, and even still today sometimes want the rules spelled out in incredibly detail. Moses law was an example of that. God speaking through Moses spelled out 613 things that we must do – some timeless laws that ought to still be followed, and others were laws that applied to that time period alone. Things like the politics, or the dietary prohibitions have passed away, but others – the moral law remains constant. As far as I can tell all of the moral law of the old testament is repeated in the new. The ceremonial law, political law, and dietary law were not, while the dietary law was explicitly revoked. 

The moral law is things like not killing, no raping, not stealing, being sober – which means not getting drunk, but I believe also means not imbibing substances that alter our mental state recreationally. Medicine prescribed by a doctor is one thing. Taking drugs for recreation is a whole different thing. If it alters your state, alcohol, pot, or worse, you’re not sober, it’s a sin. Any way. Moral law covers a bunch of things. Breaking any of the laws in any of these categories was enough to require you to make a sacrifice. The sacrifice didn’t remove your sin. It was still there. It was still on your record. But it covered it. Something innocent, and clean and good must be put to death. Must have its life blood poured out. Must cease to exist so that sinful man can have some of their sins covered. The death of the innocent was supposed to be heinous to us. It was supposed to be expensive, it was supposed to make us sick to our stomach to see something clean and unblemished, something untarnished and whole have to die to cover our sins. The whole experience is supposed to be repulsive, to remind us how repulsive our sin is. Our sin is so repulsive to God, and he loved us so much that he was willing to send his son to die on the cross for us. Were going to come back to that, but for now lets look at the second way of OT salvation.

The second way of salvation in the old testament is quite similar to ours today, and yet in the old testament economy, people largely didn’t follow it. Many perhaps thought they were. But what we have in the new testament is a couple of statements indicating there were precious few that actually followed it. In fact I can only think of a few people. Still it was the result of Gods work in their heart and life that they were able to. I say this regularly, but its worth mentioning again – at the moment of salvation, what is mans contribution? Jonathan Edwards said the only thing we contribute to our salvation is the sin that makes it necessary. So we know it’s the renewing work of God in the lives of these men that allowed them to follow this second way. Abraham was one of those few men. Paul tells us in Romans 4:2-3 	For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Paul is of course quoting genesis 15:6, let me set the stage for that a little bit. Abraham is walking around and all of a sudden God appears to him and promises him offspring, and a land. Wealth is implied as well. 

The hardest part for Abrham to believe would have been the barenness. Being baren as a couple was seen as a sign of condemnation from God. 

Imagine that for a moment, what would it be like to believe the God you believe in had condemned you, and so as a result you were childless. I think that is a bitter pill. Imagine going through life thinking God had condemned you, but choosing to follow him any way? That would take faith! God recognizes this as well, Genesis 15:6 says “ And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness”. There are precious few of whom this can be said. But this is a glimmer of what was to come. It’s a tiny match at the top of the hill proclaiming that one day there would be another way to get to God, to be reconciled to God. 

Things as you know change somewhat in the new testament.

2. New Testament Model

The new testament points back to the Old a bunch of times illustrating the futility. It is repulsive that something innocent and pure has to die on our behalf, and not just once and done. It was a thing that had to happen over and over and over and over and over in a persons life. It was a lifestyle. It cost a small fortune, and was generally an unpleasant experience. I read that during some of the big events where everyone offered a sacrifice, as many as a quarter million sheep might be sacrificed in Jerusalem. Maybe a half million birds. Millions of grain offerings. Yet the terrify cost in life, and treasure and innocence merely covered the sin of the old testament individual.  Its sort of like buying a used car… Have you ever bought a used car? Used car sellers seem to try and cover up all the problems. Or an ad for a house. They do the same thing with houses. For instance, If they say it’s cozy, or a condo alternative, you know its going to be tiny! Or if they say the house is “as is” or for “investors” you know its going to be a money pit – something that’s going to need a lot of work. They cover the faults of the house or car with spin in order to deceive us, or keep the wool over our eyes until we’ve already bought the item. God wasn’t deceived of course, but he chose to overlook any shortcoming covered by the proper sacrifice. Really all of this was a foreshadowing of what was to come. In the past many sacrifices were necessary to have an imperfect solution for sin. In the new testament it only took one sacrifice to have a perfect solution for sin. In the old testament the sacrifice was moderately priced. In the new testament the sacrifice was priceless. In the old, the sacrifice was offered at a prescribed pace, and in the new, the sacrifice was once and for all. 

Likewise in the old testament if an individual stopped or turned away from God, and the sacrificial system they would be subject to the wrath of God unless they turned back to him. 

That’s a vital difference. Because in the new testament God took some extra measures in order to ensure our salvation. You may have heard it called “once saved always saved” or sometimes called the preservation of the saints, either way its fundamentally the same thing. I need someone to come up here for a moment. In the old testament our salvation was at least partially dependent upon our own ability to cling to God. Fail to do so and doom would find you, our passage this morning says if you seek God you will find him, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you. Its like this (grasp persons arm). In the old testament, if you got sidetracked, or forgot, or had your head turned by some piece of wood, and decided to let go of God, to stop following and seeking him as you should, it was like letting go of God, forsaking God, and he would forsake you. In the new testament, (have person grab me back) if you are truly a believer in Jesus Christ, its not just dependent upon you. Jesus helps. Even when I let go, whose still there holding on? The new testament talks about this in Jn 10:27  27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 28 I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 29 My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand. 30 I and the Father are one.”
So put another way, if you are in Gods hand, how would you get out? You would basically have to be stronger than God to escape his hand. But is anyone stronger than God? Certainly not. That means if you truly became a Christian, no matter what evil you do, or think of, if you were truly saved before, you will remain so. Like this person holding onto my arm. Id have to be stronger than them to get loose wouldn’t I? But we have already established no one is stronger than God. 

Jude 24 says speaking of God “"To Him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you before His glorious presence without fault and with great joy.” Gods wrath was satisfied by the death of his son. The cosmic exchange was made. The righteous for the unrighteous. In light of the price his perfect son paid for me, and for you God is going to keep us from falling, so that we can be presented to him one day, the precious gift paid for with the blood of his Son. On that day, we won’t be that battered used car, or house whose problems are covered with clever spin. On that day we will be presented blameless and without fault. It will be a day of great joy. 

3. Somethings remain the same – Who are you? 
	a. Lost person, at enmity with God. Some people fall into this category. If you have never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve asked Jesus to pay the price for your sins, the time is now. Today is the day. The bible says Seek God, and he will allow you to find him. You might say it this way: Seek God, and he will find you. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve heard stories of people who were lost in sin. Seperated from God, and they prayed God if you’re real… God hears those prayers, he frequently responds to those prayers. Test him in this. Seek him, and you will find him. 
	b. Believer whose backslidden – some people fall into a second category. Some people have prayed that prayer to follow Christ, and then returned scripture says like a dog to vomit. Some of you in this room know exactly what I mean, you’ve lived it. God freed you from something, and yet you run right back to it. Its like my dog. I gave her a bath the other day. She had started to smell like some kind of weird blend of gym socks and doritos. So I bathed her, and she smelled a lot better. But as soon as I let her out in the yard she promptly found a mud hole, and rolled in it. Then she found something dead, and rolled in that too. Within an hour she stank more than she had before the bath. But I took my pup back in and cleaned her up again, and so will God with you. Maybe you’ve been away for a time, maybe you’ve been rolling in the filth of the world, but Gods right there waiting to take you back. Some people argue that if you’re truly a follower of God, truly a believer he will keep you from wandering too far. So if someone starts backsliding too far, its possible they aren’t saved. I’m ok with that line of thinking as long as they keep it at possible. We can’t see the deep recesses of peoples hearts. We can’t know the thoughts of someones head. But we don’t have to. God can and does, and he KNOWS you. In any event, salvation in the new testament begins with the gospel.

Announcements: 
People interested in painting the church, to pick out some colors, and present them to the church. 
Sign
Awana
Food Pantry
Website
