2 cor 5:16-6:3
To be fair, some of you sometimes think I’m being overly hard on you, or on my self, or on the church at large. Sometimes the things I say ARE hard. Its hard to hear acor bout our sin and areas where we are being sinful. But let me tell you where I’m coming from. My job is to take a message from God and break it down in a way that you can understand. So then you have a question. Am I accurately relaying to you the word of God. If I am not, then then I am a false teacher, and will suffer the consequences before God one day. If I am accurately relaying the word of God to you, and you feel convicted then its not me doing the convicting, its not me making you feel “bad”. Its God trying to get your attention. The message I believe God has given me to bring to you today is a hard one. I’ll do my best to break it down and show you in God’s word where this is coming from. I’ll even punctuate it with stories. But I won’t bring a different message besides the one God gives me, so that you can be more comfortable with your own sin or what have you. If God wants me to preach on a thing I will. Alright, that said, let me start with a story. 

We’ve been watching some cooking shows lately. Have you ever seen or heard of masterchef? They have a kids edition. Based upon what the kids are cooking I don’t think I could compete with the adults. We saw an episode this past week where they made a stuffed hamburger, home-made pesto, home made aioli, hand cut, and fried French fries, perfectly cooked burgers… Perfectly toasted bread with their initial cooked into the top of the bun. I mean this is really high level cooking for a hamburger. One of the chefs told one of the kids that if her hamburger had been for sale at a restaurant he’d be charging 34$ for the hamburger. These are deluxe, supreme, super fantastic and this sounds silly to say, but they were luxury hamburgers. We decided we were going to try and cook this hamburger which was created by Gordon Ramseys teenage daughter Tilly, she called it the tilly burger. It had a toasted chibatta bun, a portabella mushroom cap basted in a home made pesto sauce. A burger patty stuffed with mozerella, a home made mayonnaise that was mixed with Pesto, topped with a salad made from arugula, seasoned with lemon, pepper, and salt. It was good! I don’t know that it was 34$ worth of Good, but it was well worth the 4$ each we spent making them. 

Speaking of cooking, and food, I read a story about a pig this week. It was a story told by Charles spurgeon, and retold by paul washer. 

I like Paul Washer, but he can be hard to listen to sometimes because his stories just flay you. Which is I think an important part of growth. If we never saw just how short we fall, we would never take steps to grow. So any way, the story starts out with their being two spreads of food on the ground. One was made by one of the best chef’s in the world.Maybe Gordon Ramsey, or Bobby Flay, or wolfgang puck, or James beard. Some famous chef that makes his absolute best dish. It looks great, it smells great. It is one of those meals that makes you hungry just to look at it. 

The other spread of food is a steaming stinking pile of trash. Complete with maggots. Everything inside is rotten, reeking and disgusting in every way. Some of it may even be moldy. Its completely unfit for human consumption. It looks bad, it smells bad, it tastes bad. It has no redeeming value, and may even make you sick to eat it. 
Lets read our passage tonight. 2 cor 5:16-6:3

Now in the story, about the two meals you have this pet pig. You set the pig loose to choose his meal. What meal do you think he chooses?  The good meal cooked by the famous chef, or the stinking pile of garbage. 

Charles spurgeon says If you’ve had a pig I think you’ll know he immediately goes for the garbage. He finds the nasties stinkiest bucket of scummy food and plunges his whole face in to gorge himself in filth. He’s not ashamed or embarrassed in fact he loves his filth. From the perspective of a pig, garbage is a wonderful thing. 

Now in that same story, lets say mid gulp that pig becomes a human being again. He’s going to react with revulsion to the filth, going to try and get the garbage out of his mouth. He’s going to have a completely new outlook on the same nasty filth minutes before he loved as a pig. He’s going to be embarrassed that he could have ever been able to sink his face into the garbage and take a bite. 

What we’ve just described here is what happens at the moment of conversion. 

Think about what you were like before Christ! We all know Kurt’s story, or my dads. Or Kenny Duffields. We all know our own story. Mired in sin. Kenny Duffield was an alcoholic. Blowing tons of money on booze to the point where he began to need significant amounts to function. Taking booze in his thermos to work, being drunk was nearly a requirement to get out of bed. One day, he became a Christian, and God took away that love of liquor. It began to taste like lighter fluid to him, and he dumped every bit of it out, and now looking back he’s ashamed of how he lived, and acted, and moved and drove while drunk. He was like that pig face planted in the stinky nasty garbage. Drinking it in deeply. Then he became a believer, and behold all things were made new. He was no longer like the pig, now he was like the human that found himself with his face in a bucket of trash. 

Like wise, Kurt was neck deep in the motorcycle club lifestyle. He moved up the ranks. Liquor and drugs freely available, all he had to do was be their enforcer. Which was a lifestyle of violence. I’m not going to tell all his stories, but compare that with the man you see before you today, with everyones kids cuddling up to him. One day he became a Christian, and he left that lifestyle behind. Every now and then he bumps up against someone from that old life, acting like he used to act, and its repulsive. He sees the slop others are in, and he says – that’s now who I am any more, I’m a new creation!

Paul washer wrote that so often today people think they can profess Christ at church, and live like a demon and think they are gonna be ok! But they won’t be will they? 

True Christians are new creations. 

Ask your self this, are you a new creation? Because a new creation doesn’t fake it at church. Doesn’t live like Christ on Sunday and party like the devil through the week. A new creation has their heart changed. Because of their heart change, their life will change. Because of their life change, their kids, and friends, and the other people in their life will see the change and want to know why. Because of your heart change the love of Jesus starts pouring out of you, and you’ll have opportunities to share the gospel. 

There is an inextricable link between people sharing the gospel, and people that are saved. Not everyone that shares the gospel is saved. But everyone that’s saved is living the gospel for those around them. Just like the pig, when he became a man. Just like young lovers want to talk about their partner. A young man in love can’t help but tell everyone he knows about just how great his wife is. A young woman in love tells everyone she knows how great her husband is. You can’t help it. When we are truly new creations, when we’ve been given that new heart we can’t help but share the gospel with the lost and dying world around us. That’s going to look differently for different people. 

Either way you cannot live like a demon, and profess Christ, and be ok. If that’s how you live, then you’re probably not saved. 

The closest thing I can liken it to, is that kids demonstration. You know the one, you take a glass of water, and put a couple drops of dye in it. The dye represents different sins, and before you know it your glass of water is black. That is who we are, and how we are apart from Christ. Then Christ comes in – and you add a capful of bleach to the water – and suddenly the water is clear once more. But you can’t push that analogy any further. Because if you have too much die, or too much water, or not enough bleach you end up with some still half tainted mess. But unlike bleach, Christ’s power to wash us clean is unlimited. Unlike dye you can never have so much sin in your life that Christ can’t wash us clean. You don’t have to worry about ratios. Its not a 50/50 proposition. Its ALL of you, all in. All of Christ, ALL clean. All the debt of your sin paid. All of your old heart replaced and made new. 

Some people at the moment of conversion, with their new heart, are still stuck to their old slop bucket of garbage. Addictions tend to fall in this category. Their heart has changed, but their bodies are still experiencing the consequences of sin. This is a hard spot to be in, on the one hand they are racked with guilt. While on the other they have an overwhelming pull towards sin. In that situation the difference between someone whose lost, and someone whose been saved is their approach to the sin in their life. 

Everyone is given a new heart, not everyone is given instant total victory over their struggles. There are lots of people out there that will try and con you, to believe they are this way or that way, when deep down they are still in possession of their old heart. The fakers, the con men and women, the teenagers might call them “posers”, when they talk about the sin in their life you don’t hear those tones of embarrassment. You don’t hear the regret in their voice. You don’t hear their genuine heartache over how they’ve wronged their savior. 

I knew a guy, whose kids had been heart by another guy. Hurt financially. When the con man was called out – he tried to justify himself. He believed he had done everything right, and that the wrong laid on someone elses shoulders. There was no heart felt anything other than deep in his heart he really wanted to make me believe something other than the truth. Deep in his heart he wanted to deceive me. Their was no regret. There was no embarrassment, there was no heartache. There was only indignation, and self justification in a situation where he was clearly wrong. 

His repentance was as flimsy in that moment to us, as ours is to God when we don’t mean it. When were trying to work the system for a specific goal. Some people go to church to make connections, and garner influence, to network. That’s what country clubs are for. Church is a hospital for sinners. We aren’t a hotel for saints. 

So someone whose truly a believer when they are dealing with these deep sin struggles, they seek help. They show repentance. They show heartfelt remorse. They are actively at war with these things in their lives, and anything less than full on war againt their sin is a sign they never really had a true encounter with Christ. 

So your job today, is to determine if I’m accurately presenting the word of God. If so, then its God being hard on you, not me. Its God’s word bringing conviction. Scripture says the Word of God is sharper than any two edged sword, separating bone from marrow. 

I want you to ask your self right now are you truly a believer in Jesus Christ? Were you truly repentant at the moment of your salvation. Really ask your self. Deep down. Do you believe it. Don’t just say yeah yeah. I’m fine. Really ask your self if you were truly repentant. Do you exhibit the signs we’ve talked about. Do you hate the sin in your life? Are you waging war against it? Because that’s what we see in someone who has really become a believer in jesus Christ. You don’t even need the bible for this washing effect to start. We see this all over the world. We talked last week about pastors with only a few pages of scripture leading a congregation. Imagine you only had a few pages from the book of numbers. What that would be like. Yet when that happens, all around the persecuted world we still have people that are being drawn more into the likeness of Christ. The bible makes a huge difference in that process. But God is powerful enough to make it happen any way for people that live in these places without full copies of the word of God. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying not to read your bible. Heavens no. The point is at the moment of your salvation you are made into a new creature. You’re given a new heart, and so if your life hasn’t changed, perhaps you’re not yet saved. 

We put so much emphasis on praying a prayer to be saved. But you know, there is no where in scripture that says the words are what save you. Its first believing in your heart. David Platt – a pastor, a missionary, the leader of our missions board says if you don’t believe in your heart, the lord jesus Christ, then when you pray the words of the sinners prayer the words are as empty as a witches incantation. Romans 10:10 says with the heart you believe and are justified. The words are important, but meaningless without believing with your whole heart. 

There are a lot of people in churches today that think they are saved because at some point in their life they said some words. 

There are a bunch of passages we could go to that say more or less the same thing. But I want to close with mt 25. We won’t be turning there. Its your homework this week. I want you to read mt 25 starting in vs 31. This is the famous passage about sheeps and goats. God seperates the two, the sheep he saves and the goats he does not. Its funny. You’d think two species like sheep and goats would be easily distinguished. But even people who raise sheep are sometimes confused. My parents and I were at a livestock auction. One of the big differences between sheeps and goats are the ears. Goat ears are long and dangly, while sheep ears are pert and stand up. They point like little radar dishes at whatever catches their attention. While goats ears are just long and floppy. SO any way we were at this auction, and there was an animal there for sale. It looked like a hair sheep. It had the erect ears, it had sheep horns, it had the right tail, on the outside the animal looked like a sheep. I was convinced it was a sheep. But then I began talking to the owner and he said “I get that all the time. It looks like a sheep on the outside, but on the inside, it’s a goat”. How many of you sitting here today look like a sheep at church? But on the inside are still just goats. Which meal are you eating? And I don’t mean in public. In the quiet of your own home when you think  no one is looking, are you feasting on the Lord? Or is your head stuck in the bucket of trash.  People God knows the difference. He sees who you truly are, and if you are not truly a child of God, then you need to stop right now and get right with him. You must believe in your heart that Jesus is Lord, and that God raised him from the dead. After that, then you must confess with your mouth. 

As the praise team comes up here, I want you to be thinking about whether you are truly saved or not. Whether that prayer you prayed half a life time ago was something you believe or beleived with your heart or not. Because if not, then the words were empty of meaning, and value. Only you and God know for sure if that moment changed you. If not, don’t let your pride keep you from going another day without knowing for a fact that Jesus Christ is the Lord of your life. If you didn’t believe them, and you don’t see how God has been working in your life to draw you closer to you, if you are a sheep in church, but a goat everywhere else, or if you secretly are eating from the trash bucket of sin, please don’t let another day go by. Come talk to me after the service.

Close in prayer
