I had a job one time, I was working for a company that sold advertising for sort of like a yellow pages for the government. Sort of like what Kathy does, but an older version of it from a long time ago. Any way, its maybe my third day on the job, and I was cold calling people. They never give the people in training the best numbers. The lady that trained me had been sharing sort of war stories about the job. People she had encountered, and had to try and sell, and some that made her mad, and she'd run off at the mouth. Any way her stories made me feel pretty bold. So I called this one monogram company - and the government puts there names on everything from pens, to picture frames. SO it was in his wheel house, any way, I'm being really nice, and he's being pretty rude. He leads me on, and keeps me tied up for about a half hour alternating between faking interest, and saying rude, crude, and obnoxious things. I finally had my fill when he said "maybe I just don't want to do any business with the federal government", and I responded with thats fine, maybe youre not the kind of person the federal governmen would want to do business with. I told him to have a nice day and hung up.

Turned out someone had given me a sheet that was full of companies we were already doing business with by mistake. He was a current customer, and was freaked out by my last sentence. So he called in and spoke to someone, and then their boss, and their boss, and then the owner of the company. Who ended up refunding the now former customer about 2000 dollars since as far as he was concerned the government didn't want to do business with him.

So the owner met with my bosses boss, who met with my boss, and then all three of them met with me AND the lady who trained me about whats not appropriate to say on the phone.

Turned out they had a recording, and once everyone had listened to it, I wasn't in trouble. But there for a few minutes before they played the recording I thought for sure I was going to get fired. I had worked hard to learn the training materials. Instead of getting fired, they commended me on being patient with a giant jerk.

I should have known, if you don't do something wrong, you dont have anything to worry about. I'd been trained by my trainer, and said something within the scope of the things that she had said, that i had heard her say to customers. If you know your job, and do your job well, what is there to worry about.

I think Pauls mind is here on last things, and doing a good job because hes facing the end of his life. This is the last letter he would write before he died as we know.

He's already spoken about how we are to be like soldiers, teachers, athletes and farmers. Someone who works hard is again a theme this week.

Lets pray for our people group of the week The Kachin of India, and then lets read our passage.

Among the Kachin of India, however, Buddhism is a stronghold and almost all people follow it. The Singhpo migrated into India about a century before the gospel was first introduced to their Kachin cousins in Myanmar and China. Outside India there are many Kachin believers in places like China. But inside india, they are much harder to reach. Generally speaking the major religions of India make up the difference. Most Kachin are either Muslim, Hindu or Buhdist. Those who follow these religions are VERY difficult to reach with the truth. There are roughly a million Kachin, and only about 5000 of them are believers in Jesus Christ. The vast majority of which live outside of india. In fact the joshua project reports that There are many vibrant Kachin believers in both Myanmar and China who can go to those in India as Christ's ambassadors.

The workers in this field are asking that we pray "for those who follow Christ among the Kachin to live such spiritual lives that their Buddhist neighbors will want to seek and find the Savior as well. Pray for the Holy Spirit to put on the hearts of Kachin people outside of India to go to their people in Arunachal Pradesh, in Northeastern India. Pray for a movement to Christ that would produce blessings beyond what they can even imagine! Pray Kachin leaders would be open to believers coming to their communities."

Who will pray for the Kachin?

Alright lets read our passage. 2:14-end

Lets start with vs 14 Remind them of these things. He then warns them not to "quarrel about words". This reminds me so much of social media. I saw people up in arms, and angry about someone who had used "accept" with an A, versus except with an E. People growing angry enough to let loose some curse words. Over a few simple letters. Accept which means to recieve something willingly, and except which means to make an exception for, all of the ducks except that one. All of the kings except Richard, all of the children except brian got to go on the field trip.
Getting into that level of minutia when it comes to word choice outside of a graduate level class, is pointless.

When someone says "you have to accept the free gift of salvation", you know deep down what is meant by that. Whether they spell it exc, or acc. Its just not worth fighting over. Read it in its context, and be done with it. Certainly don't let it drive you to anger. I think politics frequently falls under this category as well. In our political climate we have this us vs them mentality. A divide thats growing deeper and deeper. People pointing fingers and making outlandish claims about the otherside. When in truth we all share the same burning desire for our country to be better. We all have that in common. Precious few people ever set out to destroy the country, and certainly not your neighbor flying the biden or trump flag. Your neighbor wants what you want in that they want to see the country be and do better.

Where you differ is in how we get there. You and I know we must base our opinions on all things on the scriptures; we must pull them from the word of God. The way to change the political dialog in our country isn't to accuse and malign people, its to see God change their hearts. Its not shouting at each other and name calling, its through the gospel. Titus warns us about the people that do the former - name calling, empty arguments, accusations, maigning, and so forth. saying that people like this cuse division, that such activities are unprofitible and useless. He then says basically, you warn them once, warn them twice, and then cut them loose titus 3:9-10.

We all know a person, we all have that one friend that is so overwhelmingly political and antagonistic that its hard to get away. I have one or two like that in my family. One guy was over a number of years ago, and was so pro-trump that he bleeds orange. I'm not saying anything for or against trump here, just speaking strictly on my family members behavior.
SO he was talking about Trump, and assumed because I wasn't following his example of speaking coarsely about Trumps opponents that I was supporting them. His next move was to monologue at me about how its my fault the country is ruined, and thats obviously my goal. to ruin the nation my grandfather fought to defend. As a joke, some of you remember David Gerner, he was there too, as a joke, dave rolled up, and i blurted out that Dave was going to vote for the other guy, and took off. My family member now enraged yelled at him for about a half hour before he was able to break free. That kind of behavior crosses the line. But its more nuanced than that.

I've said it before, but not for a while. If someone were to look at your facebook wall would they have a harder time hearing the gospel, or hearing about your favorite politic? THe same is true for our conversations in public, if we talk more about our favorite or least favorite politician or position than we do about our savior we have put the card before the horse. This is probably one of the biggest, if not the biggest idol in our country right now. So beware foolish talk, and quarreling about words. vs 16 puts another spin on it, calling it irreverent babel. Which is similar but different. In the greek babbel is meant to remind us of the flow of a river, or a seem or an edge. Ireverant can be translated as boastful, or loose. So like a river of garbage, someone from whose mouth flows a stead stream of edgy, or boastful, or loose, or irreverant words. Ireverant means a general lack of respect for issues that should be taken seriously.
Such talk spreads like gangrene. Scripture says. I actually looked that up. So lets say you are in an accident, someone accidently runs over your foot and its crushed. This is actually a surprisingly common form of gangrene, any way, with reduced or no circulation, your feet eventually "Catch gangrene". This wet form of gangrene spreads like a wild fire. all they can really do is cut stuff off, and hope for the best. Sometimes they treat with maggots. Its not a great thing, its definitely life threatening, and can take a persons life in the matter of a week or two if they don't cut it off. Pretty serious word picture here that Paul was using. Sort of like a cancer. I read this week that one person in four with pancreatic cancer will die within the first month after diagnosis. its one of the most aggressive, and difficult types of cancer to treat. Its a risk to the health of the church, and of your brothers and sisters in christ.
When vs 15 says to Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved,[c] a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth.

I think these issues are in view. someone who is an aproved workman, someone who has trained hard like an athelete, fights hard like a soldier, teaches with purity, and farms hard even when its boring, is going to also avoid these kinds of things.

I've said before that true christians stand out from the crowd. I met a guy one time with skin on his face that almost looked like plastic. Not perfect barbie doll plastic, but stretched, melted, and allowed to cool plastic. All wrong wrinkles, and in other places out of place smoothness. his face was misshapen by a fire that he had endured, and survived. To see him it was obvious that he had survived a fire. His features had been fundmentally changed in a way that was instantly obvious to those around him.
This man has endured and survived a fire. Its similar with the christian, when we encounter the refiners fire at salvation and beyond we are fundamentally changed, and it leaves a mark on us. One the world doesn't understand. But one that makes us stand out to each other.

True christians are going to be more about their father's business than the business of their country. True christians are going to be training like its war, and their families life depends on it, true christians will prepare like an athelete for the olympics, and a teacher, or farmer.

God has given us a wonderful foundation upon which to build, and so we should do so diligently, and with purpose. Guarding the treasure entrusted to us, and also giving it away to careful folks who will do the same.

But not all of us are going to get the same job in that process right? Everyone in an organization is important from the janitor, to the CEO, but not everyones going to be the janitor, not everyones going to be a service technician, not everyone is going to have the same job, and some of those jobs are going to be very visible, and some are less visible, some carry less honor and others carry more.

In fact lets look at the verse that talks about this in our passage today verses 20 and 21.

I looked up some of the key words here, honorable and dishonorable for instance. Honorable in the greek as you might expect means something worthy of honor, something commanding great value or worth asking a great price for. Something with true value. With the queen dying this past week, something of value has been in the news a lot. Have you read anything about the queens crown jewels? there is apparently a diamond important to India in there, that was acquired a hundred years ago from someone who may have stolen it. It would sort of be like someone stealing the statue of liberty. We'd notice, and its lack would leave a mark. this jewels lack has left its mark on its homeland. its value is incontrovertible. Its part of the crown jewels. Its the big diamond on top of the crown, sitting in a place of honor.
You might be more interested in the word Dishonorable. what word do you guys have there for dishonerable? The first time we see the English word dishonorable we see the Greek word for dishonorable. The second time, In the greek the word there is one of those words you have to translate from context, and I think they did a good job of that in arriving at the word dishonorable. But the original word there means "thing" or "these things". or its self. So let substitute self in for the second dishonorable, and read it again. Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable. 21 Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is Self or from these things, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. Paul goes on to add some more instructions. Things to do and not do. Fleeing youthful passions, and persuing righteousness. Avoid things that lead to quarrels, and when you can't avoid it season your speech with gentleness and grace. All in the hopes that you might be able to share the gospel with someone, and see them accept christ, and have that mark emblazoned on their face that declares one as a follower of Christ. Everyone else is in the snare of the devil. Do you love them enough to share the gospel with them? If not, maybe you need to hear and respond to the gospel yourself.
