I had a conversation this week with a guy who gave his background as baptist. Who now claimed to be a catholic because they take more seriously what Jesus said in the bible. I said friend if you think thats true you don't understand baptists, Jesus, the bible or Catholicism, and you've been let down by all the churches you've been to along your journey. Which reminded me its been a while since we've looked at things like the baptist faith and message. Which is a document that lists all the biblical things baptists have agreed to use as the basis for cooperation. Its not an exhaustive list. But its a pretty good list. For our passage today, if you've brought your bible, and I hope you have please turn with me to 2 timothy 3:14. While you're turning there, lets Pray for the Sanaani Arabs. They reside in the northern mountains and north-eastern deserts, as well as around the capital city of Sana'a in Yemen. The growing of the narcotic qat has become the mainstay of rural Yemen, and nearly half of the national economy is involved in qat. Can you imagine the fallout of half a country being involved in narcotics? Its a hard place to reach people as a result. Especially since they are also muslim.
Ministry Obstacles
Muslims know Jesus (Isa) is the Messiah (al Masih) sent by God, embodying His Word, but view Christianity as a campaign to destroy their families, communities and way of life.
As we work through our year of reading through the bible, I want to take a moment and talk about scripture itself. It is the first article in the baptist faith and message. You may notice I weave a lot of these themes into a lot of what I say up here, but its important I think to hear it all at once, and hopefully to expand on what you know, and deepen your understanding of the subject and love for scripture. A few years back I met a pair of women that were jehovas witnesses. They were going door to door in my neighborhood. One of the neighbors called me over, and we began talking. Come to find out the younger of the two women was a new recruit. As the conversation progressed I found out she had been (like the man i mentioned earlier a southern Baptist. She had been born to parents who were southern Baptist, she had been on the cradle roll she had been involved with GA's and as a teenager had been part of a Baptist youth group. Yet according to her, she had never taken the bible seriously. Not until she became a jehovas witness, and they use a twisted version of the bible. In their translation some places sound very very familiar, but in others its been perverted by adding to or taking away from it. I wish I could have talked to her longer because she began to waver, she knew what the truth was in her heart. When the old woman with her saw the younger woman begin to waver she pulled the plug and stormed out. She didn't know her bible, and so when the JW's came along and gave her something that sounded good, she jumped right on board. This is part of why it is so important for us to know our bibles cover to cover. We won't get there tomorrow, but but every time we read it, we are one step closer. Have you ever been bowling? Or better seen little kids bowling with those bumpers that keep the ball from going in the gutter? We have a number of documents that can help serve in a similar capacity. These are generally called confessions, or sometimes creed. s Most recently the Southern Baptist denomination has been using the Baptist faith and message. Its not perfect, none of them are, but it represents the necessary essentials that when boiled down are what we as a denomination have decided are enough to cooperate around. This statement has had a few things changed here and there, nothing fundamental, mostly just to add clarity, and to pull us back as a denomination from theological error. This most recent change doubled down But this isn't the only, or even the oldest of the documents that we use to define what it is to be a Baptist. In the 1800s we had the Abstract of Principles. It was the document that The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary was founded upon. Every professor at Southern, and my own seminary Southeastern has to sign it and agree with it fully without qualification even still. This was based upon even older American and European Baptist statements of faith. The 1800s also had the New Hampshire Baptist confession, and the 1700s had the Philadelphia Confession. At the close of the 1600s we had the second London Baptist confession, and at the start of the 1600s in 1611 as it happens we had Thomas Helwys confession of faith. The second baptist confession in 1689 is more or less a copy of the presbyterians westminster confession of faith. You could go further back. Clear to John Calvin, Martin Luther and the Annabaptists. Each of these says pretty much the same thing as our baptist faith and message when it comes to the inerrancy of scripture. In fact when it comes to scripture with the exception of a brief time period in the 1970s and 80s, the chorus of Baptists present and past has always been that Scripture is Gods word to us, and to be trusted, defended and supported. In fact in 1611 it was written in Thomas Helwys Baptist confession that scripture "set down an absolute, and perfect rule of direction, for all persons, at all times, to be observed; Which no Prince, nor any whosoever, may add to, or diminish from". In the 1689 LBCF2 which was a significant influence on our Baptist Faith and Message of today, they wrote – and excuse the long quote "1.1 The Holy Scriptures are the only sufficient, certain and infallible rule [1]for saving knowledge, faith, and obedience. [2]
Although the light of nature and the works of creation and providence give such clear testimony to the goodness, wisdom and power of God that they leave people without excuse, [3]yet they are not sufficient to give the knowledge of God and his will that is necessary for salvation. [4]Therefore it pleased the Lord to reveal himself at various times and in different ways, and to declare his will to his church. [5]To ensure the preservation and propagation of the truth, and to establish and support the church against human corruption, the malice of Satan, and the world, he committed his complete revelation to writing. The Holy Scriptures are therefore absolutely indispensable, [6]for God's former ways of revealing his will to his people have now ceased. [7] Al Mohler wrote saying when talking about the Bible He prefers to use the words "truthfulness and trustworthiness are probably the best words in the English language to serve us . . . . Truthfulness and trustworthiness frame the perfection of the Bible in positive terms—always more easily understood—and they better communicate the personal nature of God's assurance that the revelation he has given us in the Bible is both true and trustworthy because he is true and trustworthy" Another man suggested that he prefers "the term infallibility … because it suggests that the Bible does not fail to achieve the purpose for which God has given it"
More recently than the other confessions I mentioend, there was a document signed by the leadership of every major denomination that still holds tight to scripture, called the Chicago statement on biblical inerrancy. This particular confession is quite extensive, but it is in lock step with scripture every step of the way every sentence is backed up and has supporting scriptures. Like our Baptist faith and message does. The new Hampshire and Philadelphia confessions are basically just the 1689 second London but re-worded here and there. It is the chorus of our history, our present and our future that the word of God is wholly accurate, inerrant and infallible. Fully Trustworthy and fully truthfull. That it is inspired by God himself. Alright are we all in 2 tim? Lets start with vs 14 It says we should continue in what we have learned. The verbs always add interesting tidbits, and this one is no different. In the greek it is present active imperative. Someone tell me what imperative means – anyone? Right exactly a command. So we are to start right now, and continue without stopping to obey the command that follows. Continue acting in accordance with what Paul (and we can include the disciples in there also) have taught. Today, how do we know what Paul and the disciples taught? Exactly, by reading scripture! How can we continue in what we have learned without having learned it to start with? The study of scripture is implicitly commanded here. RC Sproul wrote that we study scripture so that we can understand and come to know God. So that we can meet the true and living God in his word and deepen our personal relationship with Him. But we cannot deepen a relationship with someone if we do not get to know them. So scripture is a means to an end, and not an end in itself. Through scripture we can come to better know the one who gave his life to save us. In another place he says something to the effect of "how can we claim to love God if we don't love his word?". I think he is right to give us a heart check on this. BUT I also think he words it overly strong. Not everyone is at the same point in their journey with God. Not everyone is at a point where they love reading scripture, for some of you its hard to read a chapter, and for others you are in a different place. No one has ever been born an adult, and no one is born again and ready and able and equipped to fully plumb the depths of every scripture. IT takes time and effort and study to get to that point. Vs 16 says ALL scripture is God breathed. We believe that God inspired each of the authors in a special way and through their vocabulary and personality God expressed eternal truths about Jesus to us in a way that would be translatable into every language, in a way that everyone would be able to understand, and in a nuanced way such that no matter how many times you read it, it always brings you to some new depth. Ok lets read that handout, outloud, together. You ready? We have already covered a fair bit of this statement. I'd like a handful of you to each pick a verse on that handout, look it up, and read it for us, before we proceed. We've already read 2 timothy 3. So pick other verses. BFM Article 1: The Holy Bible was written by men divinely inspired and is God's revelation of Himself to man. It is a perfect treasure of divine instruction. It has God for its author, salvation for its end, and truth, without any mixture of error, for its matter. Therefore, all Scripture is totally true and trustworthy. It reveals the principles by which God judges us, and therefore is, and will remain to the end of the world, the true center of Christian union, and the supreme standard by which all human conduct, creeds, and religious opinions should be tried. All Scripture is a testimony to Christ, who is Himself the focus of divine revelation.
Exodus 24:4( moses wrote down everything the lord said); Deuteronomy 4:1-2 (don't change God's word); 17:19 (read the bible every day, follow it carefully, revere it); Joshua 8:34 (joshua read every word of God's word); Psalms 19:7-10 (God's word is perfect); 119:11 (God's word helps keep us from sin),89 (there are consequences for disobedience to God's word),105 (God keeps his promises!),140 (God is sovereign); Isaiah 34:16; 40:8 (gods word will endure, and he will protect it); Jeremiah 15:16 (God's word brings joy); 36:1-32; Matthew 5:17-18; 22:29; Luke 21:33; 24:44-46; John 5:39; 16:13-15; 17:17; Acts 2:16ff.; 17:11; Romans 15:4; 16:25-26; 2 Timothy 3:15-17; Hebrews 1:1-2; 4:12; 1 Peter 1:25; 2 Peter 1:19-21. I want us to think about the sentence that says it reveals the principles by which God will judge us. Judgement is kind of a hot button topic today, people are so quick to say don't judge me. Or to claim that the bible says "judge not". It does say Judge Not, but the Truth is we are to constantly be judging, just know that we too are also being judged. I had a friend that used to say any time you point a finger at someone, there are three pointing back at yourself. So Lets start with ourselves. We should be judging ourselves based on scripture. The bible is sometimes called the "canon of scripture". This term canon has been coopted by comic book franchises and so forth. People talk about the official marvel canon, or what have you, but the source of this word is in relation to scripture. They don't mean canon – like the gunpowder weapon that fires massive iron balls at concrete structures or wooden boats, no. The word canon in this context goes back to the word for "reed". They used to use reeds of a certain length as measuring sticks. Scripture is a measuring stick for our life, our actions, our relationships, it contains both the standard we should live up to, and ways to measure our progress. We absolutely should be judging our selves. My father has a door that he has the grandkids back up against, and he takes their measure every so often. The door used to be my grandmothers, and so my measurements ar eon there as well. Most of my cousins, and basically our whole family has had their measure taken on the back of the door. One day we are going to stand face to face with God, and he will take our measure. His measuring tape will be Scripture. So as our Baptist Faith and Message says, the bible is the true center of Christian union and the supreme standard by which all human conduct, writings, and opinions should be tried. Judgement is hard for our culture. We have worshiped to the point of idolatry our own comfort and happiness to the point that our kids don't see anything wrong with violating God's rules to be happy. I was talking to a young person a while back who struggles with elements of her identity, and when she talks to me about such things she couches them in phrases like "my friend" did you guys ever have a "air quotes friends" that you talked to someone about? Any way this young person was telling me that they have a hard time with any God that would ask you to forgo personal happiness in order to be obedient. You see the problem with that though right? Greg was talking last week about how we have lost the reality of the title Lord in our society. In the days of kings and queens having absolute power and authority, if they gave a command you were obligated to obey. It wasn't a request until you find something else that makes you happy. When the king commanded you to obey you obeyed until they told you to stop or to do something else. The problem today, and what I told this young person was best summed up by Tim Keller. Tim wrote" If your god never disagrees with you, you might just be worshiping an idealized version of yourself." In order for God to be God, he has to be different than us. His omnipresence gives him a view of current events we could never hope to match. The level of information and scope of view just across our world today would inform his infinite mind far better than we could ever hope to approximate. Because he is God, his nature demands he see things from a different perspective. Because he is timeless. God is past, present and future. He knows all the things that have, can and will happen. That perspective requires him to see things differently simply becaue we are incapable of knowing, of processing, and our limited minds would be incapable of storing that kind and amount of information. Because he is Good and Just he does what is best with that information in ways we could never hope to approximate because while we try to be good and just our goodness is tainted by sin and is no better than filthy rags. And while we try to be just our justice is tainted by sin and falls so far short. That's why we look around and see all these injustices – because of our own failings as people. We did that. It was our sin that caused this. IF God saw everything the same way the sinful world sees it, then what would we need God for? If God agreed with us on everything, he would not be God. He could not be God. God telling us things, and giving us commands that we disagree with and expecting us to strive towards those goals is proof that he is God. Because as tim keller says, anything less than that, and were probably just worshipping our selves. I know a lot of you committed to reading through the bible in a year with us. I won't ask for a show of hands, but how many have mostly kept to your word to do so? We are at about the half way poin, and I want to re-commit as a church to reading through the bible in a year. If you didn't make it last year, that's ok, lets try again. If you did, you're in for a double blessing because the second time through you find greater depths, your soul is more deeply anchored in times of trouble. You have greater instant access to the things the prince of peace has told us about himself. But all of that starts with a relationship with God. Gospel. Communion 23 For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, 24 and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body, which is for[b] you. Do this in remembrance of me."[c] 25 In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me." 26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
27 Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. 28 Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 29 For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
