People group of the week. Pray for the Lampung Pesisir in Indonesia. They are a Sunni and sufi muslim group. They are a kind and generous people that make large donations to this muslim cause or that one. They give and give and give and as a result live a very simple life. They have a hard time accepting the good news because they just cant wrap their minds around the work of Jesus being sufficient for salvation. Who is willing to pray for the Lampung Pesisir in Indonesia? 

This week we are continuing our journey through the Baptist faith and message and will be talking about the Holy Spirit. 

There is so much we could talk about. There are controversies and all sorts of things. We will dip our toe into some of that. Only because there is so much bad teaching out there about the holy spirit. Let me start with a story though. I went on a youth trip to Washington Dc back in the late 90s. It was several days of worshipping God, of sitting under great bible preachers and teachers, and then at the end of it we marched on the capital building and worshiped God some more on the national mall. Hundreds of thousands of kids, and tens of thousands of youth workers. Any way, every day they had break out sessions, and the different teachers would give a snippet of what they planned to talk about. This one guy spoke really passionately about prayer, and improving your prayer life, and I figured who couldn’t do better when it comes to prayer, so I went. The room we met in was probably 20 times the size of our little church, and there was a coil of teenagers in a line all the way around the room. At the end of the line there was this teacher, and he was praying over each person that came through individually. Wasn’t what I was expecting but still cool. I was in line with a friend, we talked and the time passed quickly. We finally get up to the front and the guy asked me if I had ever been baptized in the holy spirit. I told him I was a believer in Jesus Christ, and had been baptized in water before, and that I’m a Baptist, so we don’t really talk about such things. Have you ever heard people talk about being baptized in the spirit before? Have you ever heard the phrase slain in the spirit, laughing in the spirit? or any of a number of other things the holy spirit allegedly does? Needless to say as this was before bible college, I didn’t know what to say to the man, and he prayed for me, and I went on about my day. Other people talk about speaking in tongues, and that it’s a sign you’ve been saved, and so forth. If you were ever approached by someone that said you have to speak in tongues to be saved, what would you tell them? 

I think if we just cover those things, the ministry of, the gifts of, and proof of the holy spirit in our lives, we will be doing well. 

So lets start with our scripture Acts 2:1-9, 36-40. 

Our first stop is going to be vs 3-4 which says “And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.” 

This is an important point for the church as a whole. This moment signified the start of the church, the new covenant completed in Christ and sealed with the holy spirit. There were basically three periods to lump everything into big un-nuanced buckets. There was the old testament way that God dealt with people, then Christ comes, and its this sort of transitional time where even Christ was following the law, and then after Christ we have this new covenant, this new system where we no longer have to offer sacrifices. This is sort of the first day of the church, and peter is the first recorded preacher. Its definitely a momentous occasion. God brought in this new covenant, this new dispensation with fanfare. But what precisely happened there has been a subject of debate for the last 150 years or so. You see in your bible where it says tongue? That is a figure of speech. We have a lot of figures of speech in English don’t we. Sometimes called colloquialisms. We say might say to someone sitting on a sofa, that “you’re on the right path”. We aren’t talking about their literal physical direction, but we are generally speaking in terms of the direction of their thoughts or life, it is dependent upon some cultural knowledge, and conversational context to explain the meaning precisely. The same is true of this word Tongues. That is a literal translation of the word. As you know they aren’t talking about the organ in your mouth, they are talking about languages. But what languages? This is where the debate comes in. Some people tie that word to another passage that talks about speaking in tongues of angels, and argue that speaking in tongues is always an angelic prayer language. Other people argue that its other terrestrial languages. Honestly the greek word for tongues is flexible enough to allow for either. So what do we have to look at? We can look at the other words in the passage, and we can look at the passages context to try to gain some insight into what this word Tongues means. 

Firstly lets look at the word directly before it. Other. Other is an interesting word. In English other is pretty broad, Mr Webster says other is referring to a thing that is different or distinct from something already mentioned or known. Or that it means additional. My grandmother used to love additional things. You’d go over and visit, and spend a couple hours, and as you were leaving she would say “OH, one more thing!”. She had something other to talk to us about. If you look at the greek word, you see something similar. Except ἕτερος is in numerous places translated as neighbor, as stranger, as man, as the latest in a series according to Strongs number 2087. IF Luke had wanted to say the apostles were speaking an angelic prayer language he has lots of words that he could have used to do so. This word for others is a clue that Luke is speaking about earthly languages. Lets see what else we can find. The next thing worth noting, is that Luke is speaking in plain language. He’s not telling a parable. He’s relaying a historical account. He’s not telling a story to emphasize a point, he’s being very literal. When the bible is speaking literally, we should take it literally. Thirdly, lets read vs 5-6 “5 Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. 6 And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language”. Very clearly, here, Luke is talking about different languages. If a Russian had been present, the Russian would have heard the disciples speaking in Russian. If you had been there, you would have heard the disciples speaking in your heart language. For most of us that would be English. Dalia would probably have heard Arabic. Someone from france, would have heard French and so forth. They aren’t speaking gobbledygook. They are speaking in real, Terrestrial earth languages. This isn’t something they took a class in. It is something that only happens to those that are real believers in Jesus Christ though, you caught the sequence right? The tongues of fire settled over the believers, then the holy spirit filled them. They weren’t going around praying for God to fill them. They were waiting for the promised helper that Jesus said he would send, and then bam, God acted on the believers to fill them with the Holy Spirit. Right after which the start speaking other earthly languages. There is a missional and evangelistic need in the early church. Jerusalem is strategically at the cross roads of the known world. Trades came from as far away as England and asia to trade. People from scores of peoples, tribes, and language groups would have been present that day, and so it makes sense for God to move in this way in this place. There is another passage that says “if I speak in tongues of angels, but have not love”.  I wish we had the time to focus on that this morning, but needless to say that passage is speaking in hyperbole – its using “tongues of angels” as a way to drive home a point. Luke is speaking literally and descriptively, where as Paul is giving a sermon illustration. Make sense? There is more there… But were getting off track. 

It strikes me that Mankind fails at every task God sets before us without his help don’t we? Told us not to eat the tree, and we ate from the tree, told us to follow the law, and sacrifice when we couldn’t, and we couldn’t even do that. So he had to send his son to die for us. We cant even be interested in things of the Lord on our own – scripture rightly says the things of the Lord are foolishness to those that don’t believe. We couldn’t secure salvation on our own. We can’t maintain salvation on our own. The best we can do is filthy rags. So God, after paying our sin price, after securing our salvation, after defeating sin and death and hell and satan, had to send us his holy spirit to indwell in us, to do a work in us, because we would be unable to grow towards Christ without his help also. I heard a pastor once say God has already done the hard part. Boy has he! He even has to do a work in us before salvation or we would reject the good news outright and call it foolishness. 

So the holy spirit shows up and seals everyone that’s a believer. It happens at the moment of salvation. The moment you become a believer in Jesus Christ God sends His Holy Spirit to dwell inside of you. In that moment, someone whose truly saved gets all of the Holy Spirit that will ever get. Its not like some cosmic gas tank where you can run out. We are all granted the same amount of the holy spirit that Elijah and Elisha had. But unlike those two, it never leaves us once we are saved. 

So we’ve scratched the surface of the ministry of the holy spirit, lets talk more about proof of the holy spirit in your life. 

Spiritual maturity is a big mark of this. People that believe in God, that have the holy spirit in their life grow in Christ. Its natural, normal and expected. 

Its easy to say you follow Christ, and maybe some can fake it for a few weeks or a year, but you can’t fake it across the arc of your life. We knew a guy that came to a church we used to go to for a time that could sound pretty good at church, but outside of church if you ran into him he was living for the world. Maybe you can fool me, I’m not perfect. But you won’t fool God on that point. 

So you have to look at your own heart and examine it – are you closer to God now than you were a year ago? Five years ago? Ten? 

Are you reading God’s word more than you were a year ago? Five years ago? Ten? 

Are you praying more than you were a year ago? Five years ago? Ten? 

If someone you haven’t seen since you’ve become a believer ran into you today, would they be able to tell somethings different? 

Are you more humble now than you were? That’s a tricky one. Paul says people are puffed up by knowledge, but that love builds up. Reading and memorizing scripture is so important, but do you allow yourself to look down on those that haven’t memorized as much? That don’t read as much?

How about in your approach to others. Jesus was described as being full of truth and grace. Are you all grace with people, letting things slide that you shouldn’t, or are you all truth with no grace? Either isn’t good. Both are needed. Jesus was hard when he needed to be, he chased the money changers out of the temple, and he offered grace to the woman at the well. Navigating those situations well comes with a depth of relationship with God and with the presence of the holy spirit. There is more that could be said here, but were already long at this point. 

Let me ask you this. If someone approached you and asked if you had ever been “baptized” in the holy spirit. What would you tell him? And laughing in the holy spirit? Did we see any of that in the bible today? What about over the last year as we have completed reading through the entire bible together? Hmm… I won’t say God can’t do anything. Because he can. He can make people speak in languages that they don’t understand. I don’t think its normal for it to happen today and given out as a gift like Peter had. But God is capable of doing that if he chooses. God can heal anyone he wants. God can reveal information to anyone he wants. I won’t put God in a box like that. But if God thought it was important for people to know about all of these extra things, wouldn’t God have told us about them?

I’m reminded of a “revival” big air quotes that happened not too far from here not so many years ago. This man from a denomination that practices such things – the slain in the spirit, and laughing in the spirit type things was “preaching”. I say that loosely because what I heard of what he had to say on you tube sounded more like an hour of him bragging about what he had done, and how God had told him to do ridiculous things. If the stories were true, some of them were sinful. If they weren’t true, saying they were was sinful. 

Any way, this man Todd Bently told a story about one night at the “revivial” big air quotes. Where this little old lady in a wheel chair was pushed up to the edge of the stage, and she was praying and worshipping God, and Todd said “the holy spirit came upon me and told me to kick her in the face with my biker boots”. 

First of all. I don’t even know where to start with that. I think he means to say the holy spirit started talking to him, but instead he’s saying things from the old testament, where one didn’t have the holy spirit, and then one did for a time. But we don’t ever have more or less of the holy spirit once we are saved! Secondly, does that sound like something the holy spirit would ever command someone to do? Certainly not. I wish I could say that this was a unique occurrence. But ever night that this man preached, he had another story like this. Grabbing a crippled womans legs and using them like baseball bats, kicking a man with polio in the face. Punching women. And this is supposedly of the holy spirit? Does that sound like the holy spirit we’ve discussed today? 

We have to have discernment. We have to know what our bible says so that when we encounter these charlatans we can know. Todd Bently was pretty obvious to us. But there were hundreds of thousands upon hundreds of thousands that went and were entertained and believed this was a thing of God. To the point where he made national headlines back in 2008. Around a half million people attended this show. Since 2008 tens of millions of people have seen this, and believed in Todd. I’m reminded of a quote by Charles spureon. He wrote “A time will come when instead of shepherds feeding the sheep, the church will have clowns entertaining the goats”. The sad thing about Bently – is I think he is deceived himself. He’s all about feelings, and emotions. He’s not about the word of God. Be wary of anyone like that. Anything that conflicts with the Word of God is NOT of God. Bently says he’s here to blow the and I quote “bum hole” out of the church and put back a whole new thing.  Bently says all of this started not when he encountered Jesus for the first time, but when he bodily encountered an angel. Not even an angel would whisper in the ear of Todd Bently the things that have come out of his mouth. If its not God or an angel that he’s listening to. Who does that leave? 

Gospel.
