Gal 3:27-4:7

We used to have little missions moments in the service. I want to get back to that. So lets start that again this week. As believers we are part of a global community of faith. There are believers on every continent in the world, and they are serving in different contexts, and we should stay with them in prayer. Not only that but there are people groups all over the world that have not yet heard the gospel, that do not yet have the scriptures in their own language. That have no missionaries serving in their context, and we need to keep them in prayer too. So what I want to do is to spend the first minute or two of the service talking about a people group somewhere in the world that needs Jesus. Or a missionary. 

Today were going to look at the Abai Sungai people of Malaysia. They are a small fishing tribe of about 1500 people. They have a unique language, and to the best of anyones knowledge there has never been a missionary to this people group. They are adherents of a folk type of islam. They take traditional muslim beliefs and superimpose other views on top, and so they believe in the Indonesian evil eye, and so forth. We need to pray for a missionary to go to them, and learn their language, and share the gospel with them. To translate the word of God into their language. That God would even now be filling them with dissatisfaction with islam, and in the words of the hymn, tuning their hearts to sing God’s grace. 

Lets read Gal 3:27-4:7

I heard a story this week by a preacher at southeastern. He and his wife had been trying to have children for years and were not able to. They managed to get pregnant once, but their little boy Dax lived only a few days outside the womb before he passed away. The doctors told them that the pregnancy and delivery was so traumatic to this preachers wife that she would never be able to have children. 

He said neither he nor his wife took the news well. They both became angry, and bitter. They both had about a five year battle with depression, and anger with God over why they couldn’t have children of their own, and then one day about the same time God had put in their hearts that they should adopt, and so they prayed about it for an additional year and signed up with an agency hoping to adopt a little girl. The agency told them it could be a while, a year or maybe more. The agency said in no circumstances will you be able to adopt a child faster than 9 months. It jhust doesn’t happen. So imagine their delight when three weeks later they got a call saying they had the perfect little toddler for them – lily. Three more weeks, and they were a family. Now as it happens lily has two older siblings. One is in a mental health facility, and the other – a teenager – is in an orphanage. They wanted to keep the girls together, but the teenager – 13 year old Mercedes has just been through too much and the agency says shes not healed up enough from her experiences enough to be placed with a family yet. So they stay in contact, and once a month, if Mercedes has been good they can take her out for a date – an afternoon at the mall, or to see a movie, and dinner, giving her a glimpse at what life with a family can be. 

Lily and Mercedes story is heartbreaking. Their mother was a drug addict. She did whatever she had to in order to get her next dose of drugs. Hunger was common, seeing their mother doing drugs, and other things to get drugs was their daily way of life. Seeing theft, and prostitution, and their mother doing any thing and everything not for them, not to provide for their needs, but to feed that addiction she had to drugs. One day as is often the case, the authorities found out, and the children ended up with Baptist Childrens homes. 

Lily at three would ask Paul and his wife every night “will we have food tomorrow??”. Can you imagine the circumstances that would lead to a little three year old to ask those kinds of questions?

Any way, one day at dinner, Mercedes was talking with the preacher whose name is Paul, and his wife alone for a moment, and she said, you know I’m really happy for Lily. The preacher, named Paul, said well why is that? Mercedez replied “I’m so glad lily has a daddy” she went on, I never knew my daddy, and I think every little girl needs one. 

I am quick to tell people they cannot morally kill their baby, but I need to be just as quick to advocate for adoption. Want to hear a statistic that broke my heart? If every Christian family in America – even if just every southern Baptist family adopted one child today, there would no longer be any orphans tomorrow. Adoption is a very biblical concept. The old testament is littered with references and commands to orphans and the fatherless, but also to Israels status as his children, his people, his nation. His adopted family. Beyond that it is spelled out in a number of stories regarding individuals. Moses was adopted by Pharoah – like we are adopted by the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Esther was adopted by her uncle Mordecai. 

In the New Testament Paul talks a lot about this concept. You’ve heard me talk about Eph 2 a fair bit, that we are by nature children of wrath, sons of disobedience. But this concept is also all throughout romans, and galations, and Corinthians. John talks about it too – right at the beginning of his book. John 1:12-13, “But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.”

Or Paul in Galatians Galatians 4:4-5 what he says, is central to the gospel: “But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.”
Our redemption through Christ isn’t just penal substitutionary atonement, that means he didn’t just get us out of trouble because of our rebellion against the law, he didn’t just take our place, and pay our punishment with his blood. But he also adopted us as his sons and daughters. 

For God adopting us was costly. Scripture says God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (2 cor 5:21)

Or John 3:16 who knows that one by heart? 

It cost Christ his life, a thing he willing lay down for you and I so that we could have a share in his righteousness and be shielded from Gods wrath, and adopted as sons. I know a kid whose struggling with some things, and this kid has a hard time with the idea that God would ask some to put aside their own happiness for the flicker of time we are on earth, so that his laws can be upheld. 

While we are talking about the subject of adoption, I want to give you an update on my friends who have been trying to adopt sam and Abby for a few years now. Youll remember last year they had a set back and ended up leaving Taiwan with out the kids. You’ll be happy to know they got the call to come get the kids, and are now spending their second night back in the states as a family. I saw a picture that made me tear up a bit. Their new daughter Abby was sitting next to her new Dad Joshua on the plane, her little hand wrapped tightly around her dads finger. I can’t imagine what that would be like for a little girl. Leaving the country she knows, the language she knows, the food she knows, the people she knows for people she doesn’t, for a language she doesn’t, for a culture she doesn’t somewhere far enough away that she wont be seeing her friends any more. The only one she has for comfort is her new dad, and she was clinging tightly to him. 

What a picture of what we have in Jesus. They didn’t have to adopt these kids, they didn’t have to travel half way around the world to bring them home, they didn’t have to open their home and their hearts to these two precious children. But they chose to, and now these two who had no home now have one. These kids who had no family, now have one. These kids who lived in a third world orphanage now have beds of their own, toys of their own. The guarantee of food every night. How many orphans around the world, or even in the usa have that? Like lilly in the story from earlier, “dad are we going to have food tonight??”. 

Adoption isn’t cheap. It cost Josh and Sara a lot. Ever looked at airfare for four from another country? I looked it up, just in short notice airfare they are looking at around 10,000 bucks. Not counting hotel stays for a week, food there in a foreign country for a week. Whatever they needed to eat or drink on the plane, and lets not forget this is the second time they have made this trip. Last time they stuck it out for a month living off credit cards, trying to get their kids home. But whatever it cost them financially, its nothing compared to what it Cost Jesus to bring us home. 

If Jesus is willing to give up everything – even his life for you, so that you can share in the wonderful joy of relationship with God, so that we can share in being heirs to Christ. Christ paid the ultimate price, so that we can have everything God – the creator of the universe has to offer. How can we do anything else but respond in obedience? 

Secondly some earthly things are empty pleasures. God telling us NO is for our own good whether we can see or understand it from where we are at. 

I read a western once. Any of you like westerns? I think It was a louis Lamour western. I forget all the details of the story. But one scene stood out in my mind. The would be hero was searching for his kidnapped fiancé. He was creeping through the woods towards this campsite, He could hear her, and the kidnapper. The kidnapper is explaining his convoluted plot, and how his next step is to kill her and destroy the stories hero with grief.  The heros trying to find his way to a spot where he can shoot the black hat wearing bad guy, and finally finds a spot where he can get a clear shot. He can only just see the hat through the brush though, but he knows that’s where the kidnappers voice was coming from, and you know, the back of the head is just under the edge of the hat, so he’s pretty sure he can shoot the bad guy, and save his fiancé. So he takes careful aim, and fires. In that same moment three shots ring out. What he didn’t know, was that his best friend had gotten there just a few minutes ahead of him, he was hiding in the woods just outside the camp too. Who the hero actually shot was his best friend, at almost the exact same moment, that his best friend shot the bad guy. Unfortunately the third shot was the bad guy shooting his fiancé. He thought he was saving his fiancé by shooting the bad guy, but because of where he was, and his perspective on the situation he didn’t have the whole scene in view, and the whole thing ended in tragedy. His enemy was dead, but at the cost of his best friend and future wife. 

We are like the hero in that last story. Our vision is tainted by sin just like the heros vision was tainted by the woods, and it being night. We can’t see the whole picture, just a little corner, just like the hero could only see part of the hat. So sometimes when we take aim and shoot at things that we think will bring us happiness, all we end up doing is compounding our own grief. 

Like drugs. They may make someone feel a certain way for a moment, but what are the long term effects of drugs? Or alcoholism? Or pornography? Other sexual sins like adultery, or fornication, homosexuality are going to do the same thing. Our heart is wicket and evil and can’t be trusted. Scripture says that, and if we look around we can see that. What we lust after in our flesh because of sin, and our enemy is our own ruin. So can God ask us to do things our heart doesn’t want? YES! Because that’s the loving thing to do! If our hearts want ruin, and ruin is the opposite of what God wants, should we trust our own hearts or God? 

Any way. So were like that little girl lilly. We are hungry, and desperate, and functionally alone. Worse than that, we have trusted our hearts and sinned against a perfect and holy God that gave us rules to keep us from ruin. In our sinning, we run head first at and lovingly embrace our own death. 

I think a couple of things happen at that moment. For people like that little girl Lily, God weeps. For Abby and Sam, God weeps. God weeps for lily and violet. We are commanded to weep with those who weep. We know the book of Jeremiah, God wept repeatedly for his wayward children. He wept for the land they ruined through disobedience, and he wept for mountains, and he wept for the desert places, He wept for his people, and I think he wept for his son. God’s son was the price that was paid for your adoption. Say that with me. “Gods son was the price paid for my adoption”. So God wept. I don’t think it would be crossing the line to say God weeps for the lost as well. Not only those who are predestined to life but haven’t found Jesus yet, but for those who will reject God into an eternity in Hell. Not in a hand wringing powerless God watching on the sidelines kind of way. Because that’s not God. But in a way that grieves the eternal torment those who reject his son will justly endure.
Secondly for those whose names were written in the lambs book of life, before the foundation of the world, God in his timing begins a work in our hearts. He begins drawing us to his son. He begins working his cleansing power in our hearts and minds. Our heart is a piano out of tune. Instead of playing beautiful music for the glory of God, apart from God it plays the siren song of sin. God begins tuning our heart to sing his praise. To sing of his redeeming power in our lives. This work results in our salvation. So that one day we can be with God in heaven. 

But all of that begins with salvation. Which starts with the gospel.
