This week we are going to cover article 15, Christians and the Social Order. 

We have talked a fair bit over the past few years about social order, social justice is a word we hear all the time, and just what does that mean, and how should a Christian be interacting with the social issues of the day. This article from the Baptist Faith and message is one of the longest, and is even longer, unfortunately than the article on evangelism. 

Its an area where its easy to put the cart before the horse, and striking a proper balance is important. Neither should be neglected, but we need to put more effort and time into one. 

So what happens when someone truly becomes a believer for the first time? We’ve talked about this before, but its been a while. Gods been working on them in order for them to even have an interest. Then the evangelist comes along, shares the gospel, God reveals himself to them for the first time, and they can really see God. How could they want to do anything else but follow him? But God doesn’t stop working he continues to chip away at our hard hearts of stone. He takes something hard and ugly, and turns it into something of beauty and usefulness. If you want to make a difference, make the eternal difference and share the gospel. If everyone were a Christian tomorrow, these issues wouldn’t be issues. 

Alright lets read scripture, and then we will read the article. Matthew 5:13-16 

While you’re turning there our people group of the week are the rawat of India.Rawat means prince, and they are all relatives of royalty of some kind. There are nearly a million of them, and yet not a single believer in Jesus Christ as far as we know. They are located mostly in northern india. They are Hindu – and believe in many sticks, and rocks, and lumps of metal. I mean, the believe in many deities represented by well… sticks and rocks and so forth. Pray for them that God would send people who can reach them, that they would be convicted of their sin, and need for a savior. That they would come to worship the one true God, and him only. 

Lets pray.
13 “You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot. 14 “You are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. 15 Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. 16 In the same way, let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven.

Now lets read the article. 

All Christians are under obligation to seek to make the will of Christ supreme in our own lives and in human society. Means and methods used for the improvement of society and the establishment of righteousness among men can be truly and permanently helpful only when they are rooted in the regeneration of the individual by the saving grace of God in Jesus Christ. In the spirit of Christ, Christians should oppose racism, every form of greed, selfishness, and vice, and all forms of sexual immorality, including adultery, homosexuality, and pornography. We should work to provide for the orphaned, the needy, the abused, the aged, the helpless, and the sick. We should speak on behalf of the unborn and contend for the sanctity of all human life from conception to natural death. Every Christian should seek to bring industry, government, and society as a whole under the sway of the principles of righteousness, truth, and brotherly love. In order to promote these ends Christians should be ready to work with all men of good will in any good cause, always being careful to act in the spirit of love without compromising their loyalty to Christ and His truth.

So specifically this article speaks of racism, greed, selfishness, vice, sexual immorality including adultery, homosexuality, and pornography, care for the orphan, needy, abused, aged, helpless, and sick. Protecting the unborn, fighting for the sanctity of life, from conception to death, and infiltrating every facet of society with the good news, and redeeming power, and integrity that comes with following Christ. 

We won’t get to all of these. But I think racism is one a lot of people think isn’t really an issue today. However I know a guy who is a pastor and musician, who performs at events that bring people from across the nation. He packs out places like Madison Square gardens in Ny city fairly easily. He’s also black. One day he was on his way to perform at a concert at Madison square gardens, and he was pulled over by the police. He wasn’t speeding, he wasn’t driving badly, he wasn’t on or carrying drugs. He was pulled over, pulled from the vehicle, and handcuffed, and made to lie on the sidewalk face down in front of his son while they searched his car. While waiting for a dog, they cut open his leather seats, his spare tire, and the carpet in the cab of his car. The officer used racial slurs, and spit on my friend. Ultimately he hadn’t been doing anything wrong, and they let him go. But he ended up being late to his performance, and had quite the bill to fix his interior. All because he was a black man driving in the village, on his way to perform. 

The cop was an older man. Maybe a well dressed, well educated, respectful black man in a nice car was a scary thing when he was a new officer. But more likely than not this particular policeman – not all police – was a racist. 

When I lived in North Carolina I saw more racism than I’d ever seen anywhere else. I was shopping at an electronics store in Raleigh, and the manager who was Hispanic was following me around, and when I asked if I could help him, he told me he felt the need to keep an eye on me because he knows how “your people” are. I don’t know if he was racist against white people, black people or Hispanics. I was well dressed having just left the seminary campus, and paid in cash. I asked him “who are my people? And how are they?”. He didn’t have an answer and walked away. I never went back. 

It’s a sad thing that racism still exists today. But its not even the most heinous thing on the list. In todays world I think the item that will receive the most pushback is sexual immorality. I know a young girl for instance that is all up in arms in support of homosexual rights. She argues that people have the right to be happy. The problem is scripture says in Jeremiah 17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it? Or Mark 7:21 – turn there with me – Mark writes: For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery. Likewise Genesis 6:5 says “The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually”.

Every thought of mans heart is only evil continually. This is repeated over and over and over and over throughout the old and new testament. In the new testament in romans 1 it says God will eventually give you over to the perverse desires of your heart. 

Turn with me once more to ephesians 4. 

Paul writes ephesians 4:19 They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. 

Hardness of heart comes from sin. We have been tainted by sin right from the start. Its sort of like a compass. 

Everyone here is familiar with a compass right? What if tomorrow you woke up and your compass no longer pointed north, instead it pointed south east. Or better, we were on our way to the live stock auction for the very first time. We had never been there before so we put the address into our GPS, and drove. It got us sort of close. Kinda. It took us down this dirt road, and had us park in someones yard, and then told us to walk the last 5 miles through cow pastures. 

Our hearts are like that GPS. Our culture tells young people to follow their heart. But if their hearts aren’t pointed in the right direction, if their eternal GPS is confused, then where will that advice lead them other than to hell. One thing we know for sure is that everyones heart points away from Christ by default. That happened the moment sin entered the world. Its like putting a magnet on a compass – ever done that? Compass becomes useless. Always points the wrong way. This is the root cause of all sexual immorality. Whether its adultery, whether its pornography, whether its fornication by those not married, whether its same sex attraction. The root is sin tainting the longings of our heart, and the fruit is immorality. If we really believed that everyone should be able to do what seemed right in their own heart, then we would have no problem with terrorists. They believe a lie more than most of us believe the truth. If we really believed EVERYONE was free to follow their heart then why stop racists? Why stop murderers, its what their heart wanted? Following our heart is the truest way to find pain and suffering because our heart will lead us down the primrose path straight to hell. 

Immorality is always when you putt what you want above what God wants.  When you trust your heart, and tell God that your wants and needs are more important than his commands. If you’re starving and you decide to steal bread. You are saying to God I don’t trust you to provide for me. God promises he will supply all our needs, and food is a need. Stealing food then is a desire to fill your own belly, rather than be obedient to God. 

Pornography by a single person says to God I don’t trust you to meet my need, so I’m going to steal a thing you intended for another man for myself so I can feel happy for a minute. For a married man its saying to God the spouse you provided for me is insufficient. I want something else. You might call it looking a gift horse in the mouth. 

Homosexuality, adultery, and fornication are all in the same vein. God I don’t trust you to meet my want. 

I read a quote by Charles Spurgeon the other day and he said “sexual immorality is proof you don’t find your joy in the Lord”. Its often but not always a sign you aren’t saved. 

I don’t have a lot of experience with working with homosexuals. I’ve always like women my self. But while I was in the UK, I encountered an Anglican pastor that was on top of a soap box preaching his heart out on a street corner talking about his own experiences as one who struggles with same sex attraction. But he was going to fight this area where the GPS of his heart pointed the wrong way until the Lord takes it away, because his joy comes from the Lord. Not from earthly things. Not from another person. True and lasting Joy can only come from the Lord. Relationships are good. But even a perfect relationship with a human only lasts what? 60 years? 80 years if you’re extremely blessed? Joy from the Lord is a thing that lasts eternally. 

A related topic – abortion. I used to have a hard time understanding how someone could kill a child. But more and more I think it’s the same problem. Selfishness. They want their joy, and then want it when and how they want it, in the way they want it. Anything that complicates or threatens that is to be removed. The reason we have such a callous view of the sanctity of life is that we value the things we think will make us happy more than anything else in this life apart from Christ. 

I’m reminded of the movie the pirates of the carribean. Anyone ever see that movie? The main guy Jack Sparrow – a pirate had a compass that pointed towards whatever he wanted most. If he wanted treasure, it pointed to treasure, if he wanted a certain ship, it pointed there. If he wanted immortality it pointed towards a source of immortality. 

There is one scene where jack has been running from bad guys and other pirates, and the good guys and he pulls out his compass, and his compass points right back at Jack. What Jack wanted most in that moment was Jack. Apart from the renewing work of Christ in our hearts and lives the compass of our heart does the same thing, and points right back at ourselves. What we want, what we think we need, what seems good to us. 

That can be fixed, but it starts with a relationship with God. The more we come to know God the more our desires  reflect what God wants. The more we read God’s word, the more the compass of our heart points away from just us, and towards true north – towards God. 

Our passage today talked about being salt and light. Salt is a preservative, and light casts out darkness. 

salt keeps meat from going rancid. Salt ads flavor, and makes food taste better. If you’ve ever watched those cooking competition shows, someone always forgets to add salt, and the judges are put off by the lack of flavor. Food just isn’t as enjoyable without flavor. Apart from the salt Christians provide the world only has one flavor. It’s a song with only one note. A poem with only one letter. Apart from the salt of Christianity, the world is all about I. All about what MY heart wants. All about what seems good to me. 

God fixes our compass, God salts our heart which God uses to flavor the world.

At the risk of running long I read a book called beloved daughter a while back about this young woman that grew up the child of Christian parents in a work camp in north Korea. The book is a letter she is leaving behind with her own daughter, and those that are taking care of her explaining why she had to go back into north Korea to be a light. She talks about how her father was killed for being a Christian, how her mother slowly withered away until she took her own life. How she had to do whatever she had to do to get by, and that included having to have sex with the camp guards to avoid being raped. It talked about how ultimately she met someone who shared the gospel with her. How Christ slowly chipped away at her hard heart of stone, how one day she became a Christian and started telling others about Christ. She told of how she married a good Christian man, and how they were nearly caught and had to flee to china where the persecution was less severe. She talked of how she had a burden for the lost of Korea, and decided that even if it meant her life, she wanted to go back and share the gospel with the people of north korea. She loved Jesus so much, he brought her so much Joy, that ultimately she would put her life on the line to go to a country where if anyone even whispered that you might be a Christian your life was forfeit. She was being salt, and light in Korea. She was a hero of the faith and her story was true as told by her daughter. 

Its so easy to sit in church, in air conditioning, or on our computers and say this is right, and that is wrong. Its much harder to live it, and harder still to share the gospel with folks and disciple them so they can live it. But THAT is what we are called to do. That is how we make our nation better for our kids. 

But it all starts with a relationship.

Gospel
