There was a story going around this week, about counterfeit money. Have any of you ever had the misfortune of receiving a counterfeit bill? Well there is this website people have been going to, and buying movie prop money. Its apparently cheap, it looks fairly real, and says “movie prop” on it. Any way, according to the girl at the pharmacy near my house they have had a lot of fake money come through there lately. 2-3 times a day she says she has to point out to people that the money they are trying to use is fake. It looked real. It felt real, but for people that know what real money looks like, they knew it was ffake. That’s part of why its so important for us to know what our bible says. If we don’t know what the bible says, we can be confused by any counterfeit that comes along. 

In that vein, I was preparing for church this week, and had a whole different sermon half written, and was reading a commentary on a different passage all together, and I read the following: "One interesting testimony of how David wrote his psalms comes from Jesse Duplantis, who was caught up into heaven and met some of the people of the Holy Scriptures. When he spoke with David, Jesse was told by him that many of his psalms came while he was sitting on the side of a hill and was moved and inspired by the Holy Spirit to write down the words of these psalms.". That was pretty surprising to me. I had to dig deeper. So using my wonderful bible software and a few clicks I found out that this was from an interview on the Christian channel TBN. Any of you familiar with TBN? Well any show, any preacher for that matter is only as good as his adherence to scripture, and given enough time and opportunity everyone says something they regret. So while I’m not super sure about the network as a whole – I don’t have TV. I can say with surety that this particular interview brought out things that are not biblical. This guy – Duplantis – in the intreview – claims that his consciousness was projected into heaven, and that this has happened multiple times, and that while he was there he had a chance to sit there and talk to David. King david. Let me ask you guys, if this is raising any kind of red flags for you raise your hand. 

Good I’m glad some of  you have raised your hand. One of my first questions was, if the guy had the chance to sit with King David and ask him questions, why was the best new bit of information that he received merely that david liked to sit on a hillside. Who doesn’t like hillsides? 

If you think it through, its logical that maybe this guy didn’t really go to heaven. If we are being generous we say its his imagination, and if were not we call his words a lie. It is SO important to know the truth of scripture, so that when we encounter a counterfeit we can see it for the fake it is. If we elevate to a position of authority anyone who comes along and says they heard it from God, we will end up in hot water. 

Jim Jones after all – cult leader, and orchestrator of a mass suicide – said he was speaking on behalf of God when he obviously wasn’t. 

The man who wrote the Quran believed he was a prophet of the one true God also. The founder of the jehovas witness and Mormons believed they were speaking on behalf of God also. As do the Unitarians. 

This building used to be a Christian science reading room. The name of that group is interesting until you realize they don’t read God’s love letter to us, or believe a lot of the things that make one Christian, nor do they believe in science. Guess which error they make as a group? That’s right, read our founder, not God’s word. 

Not all of them are cults either, some are closer to orthodoxy. Ellen white the founder of Seventh day Adventism is a little weird with somethings, and may stray into legalism. It may make it harder for a person to be saved, but shes not as far away from the truth of the bible as say the JW’s or Mormons. The same is true of Watchman Nee. A lot of people fiercely defend him, and much of what he has to say is pretty good. But the problem is he or maybe his handlers want you to look to him and his writings instead of Christ, and the word of God. 

That’s the same thing this guy was doing in the interview on TBN. He’s saying I have information that’s (air quotes) true about God that you can only find out about through me. 

People if God wants you to know exactly how a thing will be he put it in scripture. If God intends for there to be some mystery then he doesn’t tell us everything. 

So that brings us to some questions. How do we evaluate the things we hear on TV, or from preachers, or in movies or on television. How do we know if God is speaking through them? How do we know if what they say is true or made up? Is God speaking through this person or that person or this book or movie or tv show or preacher or so called prophet?

John Piper when asked this question responded: “I am going to say something positive here and not just negative. … The first and main thing is to say: God really has spoken. And this word is living and active. It is not a dead word. He really speaks today through the inspired Scriptures. He really, really does. He really does. Not just with information, but with himself by his Spirit.” And through his word. 

You have to know the real thing to detect a counterfeit. People have been making their fortunes here lately by capitalizing on the idea of someone going to heaven, and coming back to tell us about it. 

I cant tell you how many books, and even movies have been made about this. I read a story about a book called “the boy who came back from heaven”. The boy in the story is called Alex Malarkey. I kid you not, that’s his real last name. Any way there was a car accident, and he and his father were both launched from the car. He said he sat there for a while and watched as an angel caught his father and carried his father gently to the ground. After a while of tending to the father, the angel came and picked up little Alex and carried him up to heaven. 

Stop right there for a moment. I need someone to read 2 corinthians 5:6-8

That’s right, focus in on vs 8 with me in the ESV it says “away from the body and at home with the Lord”In the king james version vs 8 says “absent from the body, present with the Lord.” NIV says “away from the body and at home with the Lord” The greek here, literally translated to the best of my ability says “to be absent from the body, and at home with the Lord”. Those three verses stripped from their context don’t by themselves destroy the boys story. But read the next few verses with me (pick back up in vs 8, and read through 10). So once we are absent from the body, what comes next? We leave the body, and we stand before Christ on his judgement seat. So that we can get whats due to us – whether good or bad. So we KNOW that when we leave our body we go straight to Christ, and he pronounces judgement on us. 

It doesn’t say after a short while of being absent from the body, while we watch angels complete their tasks, then after they aren’t busy the angel will carry us to heaven. No it says absent from the body, present with the Lord, and then the judgement. I haven’t read EVERY story of someone that’s been to heaven and come back. But there few that I have read always fall short on this point. They skip right past Christ, and go straight to the exciting parts. This Malarkey boy didn’t start with being judged by Christ, he got carried into heaven and was shown around and then sent back. 

Being sent back is another issue. I need someone to read John 3:13, John 1:18

Jn 3:13 esv No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. 

Jn 1:18 esv 18 No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father’s side, he has made him known.

Another way we can know this story is fake is that the boy the story was written about came out and said so. He is a quadrupulegic, and is still in very rough shape physically. His father that wrote the book, left his mom and is living his best life now. He enjoys all the wealth and priveledge of being a millionaire, and abjectly ignores his son both in terms of his time, and his finances. His son, who the story is supposedly about, doesn’t see a dime of support, nor does the wife the man left in the process of. Any way, here is the boy, alex malarkey’s letter to Tyndale Publishing house. 

Please forgive the brevity, but because of my limitations I have to keep this short. I did not die. I did not go to Heaven. I said I went to Heaven because I thought it would get me attention. When I made the claims that I did, I had never read the Bible. People have profited from lies, and continue to. They should read the Bible, which is enough. The Bible is the only source of truth. Anything written by man cannot be infallible. It is only through repentance of your sins and a belief in Jesus as the Son of God, who died for your sins (even though he committed none of his own) so that you can be forgiven may you learn of Heaven outside of what is written in the Bible... not by reading a work of man. I want the whole world to know that the Bible is sufficient. Those who market these materials must be called to repent and hold the Bible as enough. In Christ, Alex Malarkey.”
 
Two days later this book was pulled from the shelves, all copies that could be purchased were recovered and burned. But that still left tens of millions of copies in peoples homes, and hundreds of millions of dollars spent watching this movie.
Scores led to believe the false narrative of Alex Malarkey’s dad. People believed the lie because they couldn’t tell the truth from a counterfeit. Can you? Lets look at what scripture says, and I’m afraid we are going to run late today, but there is no helping it. 

It strikes me that of all the stories we read in the bible of people dying and being brought back to life, almost no details are brought to light about what heaven would be like. Paul records in 2nd cor 12 that he himself visited heaven, and that he couldn’t really share his experiences. Perhaps God forbid him from sharing! The new testament spends a whole chapter talking about Lazarus. Lazarus spent four days dead. But does lazarus talk about the glories of heaven? Nope. There is not a single account in scripture, or that I could find outside of scripture that talks about Lazarus saying even a single word of what heaven was like. This pattern is repeated any time a biblical person spent any time dead. If they say anything at all, they only speak to the glories of God. 

Many of the books and movies today talk about picnics, and being reunited with lost loved ones, and scores of other mundane things. Things about which scripture is as silent as the grave about. 

In fact lets read Pauls account in 2 corinthians 12, While you are turning there, I want to clear up one thing. Most scholars believe Paul is talking about himself in the third person in this passage. Especially in the context, he goes on to talk about humility, and saying that is the reason he has to fight this thorn in the flesh is to help keep him humble, and so in that vein, most scholars believe Paul to be attempting humility. To share this story with us, without making himself out to be someone more important than he is. The boy Alex Malarkey we’ve been talking about still has people making pilgrimages to his home, people asking him to gives messages to God, and their loved ones for them. They want Alex to be their mediator. But what does scripture say? There is only one mediator between God and man and that is Christ Jesus. Alright are you in 2 corinthians 12? Start reading with me in verse 3-6. 

The experiences he had he can’t share, because it wouldn’t be lawful. Why then is it different for any of us today to talk about it? 

Secondly I believe that heaven is so glorious and wonderful because of the presence of our savior that we would not be able to go there, and come back without becoming severely depressed and suicidal. Think about it. If good experiences are mountain tops, heaven would have to be the tallest mountain. The greatest joy. The most perfect peace, and contentment. Perfect security, enveloped in the perfect Love of God, and in His presence. 

Coming back to this world would be a jarring and depressing thing. It wouldn’t surprise me if Lazarus didn’t struggle with depression. Maybe Paul’s thorn had to do with seeing the glories of heaven and being commanded to return to complete the bible. We just don’t know because God didn’t see fit to tell us. Those that DO really know seem to have been commanded to be silent. 

So then are all of the people who have these experience liars? I am not willing to say that. But I do think when we encounter these stories we need to have a sense of biblical skepticism. Does that make sense? We have to pull out our bibles, and use the word of God to measure peoples stories, and see whether the story lines up with God’s word. We need to see if the story measures up with what God was willing to reveal to us. But that should be our approach to anything we do or see or hear about. That should be your approach to every preacher you hear – even me. Does what he says line up with what God says? If not. I hope you’ll come to me. I spend a lot of time trying my best to make sure that is the case. But no one is perfect. The absolute best thing we can possible do is know Jesus better, know his word better, and know God better. We do that through prayer, and the reading of scripture, and worship, and fellowship with other believers. Scripture says as iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens enough. When we gather together and fellowship we tend to smooth out each others rough parts. Some of us have more of those than others. But its one mechanism God uses to benefit us, and to bring glory to him. 

But before all of that we need to know Jesus as our savior. 

Gospel.

In short, I’m reminded of Ephesians 1:17-18 - that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, 18having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. 

Lets let that be our prayer. That God open our eyes to see the truth. That we would be so in love with God’s word that we would spend time studying it and memorizing it, and basking in the things it says, and its promises, and allow it to have its purifying effect on us so that we could come to know God more deeply. So that we can see him more clearly. So that our hearts are tuned to sing his praise, and his praise alone. So that when we run into a counterfeit, that we would know the difference. So that we won’t be deceived by our enemy or the world.
