Were going to be in Jn 14 tonight, starting in vs 1. While you’re turning there I want to set the stage a little bit. Jesus has just washed his disciples feet, and predicted his betrayal. Just a few short chapters between here and where he is betrayed and arrested. Jesus knows the end is approaching, and wants to pour into his disciples the last few vital things he has to say to them before his death. 

This passage was key in the salvation of one of the head hanchos of this weeks local cult. Christian Science. 

This building was a Christian science reading room once upon a time. While its dying out, there are more than 200 adherents within 2 miles of the church, so its something we need to have been introduced to and know how to deal with. 

Alright are we ready to read?

Jn 14. 1“Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God ; believe also in me. 2My Father’s house has many rooms; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? 3And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. 4You know the way to the place where I am going.”  5Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going, so how can we know the way?” 6Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 7If you really know me, you will knowb my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him.”

Lets look at this cult for a moment, and then we will talk about how to reach them.
Christian science is the next group we are going to look at. They are a difficult group because they believe they are Christians to start with. Like with all the other groups we’ve talked about so far they pull back from the importance of scripture, and place it instead on man (in this case a woman).  Anytime anything is elevated above God and His word you have an idol. That is NOT Christianity. Further like the other cults we’ve looked at they make some of the same old errors in the same old ways. Remember the council of nicea, where they hammered out a description of what the bible says about Jesus? That same error that arius made, that same issue athenatious fought against, that same biblical graphiti that inspired the man the santa myth is based on to start punching heretics, was whole heartedly adopted by Christian science, and then twisted yet again. So Arius argued that Jesus was not fully God, just that he looked like God from the right angles, right? Christian science argues, that God and Jesus both are a state of mind. If you study the founder and her words enough you too can achieve the Christ state of mind which leads to ascendency and a God state of mind. The journey to this state of mind takes you straight through 1880s pop psychology. Much of which was disproved back then. 

The whole thing hinges on the idea that all of the problems of mankind originate and terminate in the mind. So when you’re sick, if you can reach a different mental state, a different plane, than you can be free of any trouble that afflicts you. 

Which sounds great doesn’t it? Many problems do originate in our own minds. Hypochondria comes to mind. People thinking they are sick when they aren’t. But what about when you break your leg? That is an actual physical problem that you cant solve just by thinking hard. What about diabetes? Sids in infants? Asthma? Bronchitis? Pneumonia? Flu? Cancer? Aids? The Cold? Think as hard as you want, but I promise you thinking alone, and the right frame of mind alone will never defeat a broken bone by itself, much less sin. 

This Christian science nonsense is appealing to people because they are able to elevate themselves to the level of “god in their own mind”. Tim Keller writes “If your god never disagrees with you, you might just be worshiping an idealized version of yourself.” This is a trap any of us may fall into if we do not define our idea of God by what the bible says about God. 

Christian science was started by a woman named Eddie. She spent her life studying scripture and what would come to be called psychology, and trying to synthesize the two things into a new third one. In truth, if we look at the results of her efforts she tried to fuse two good things, and while a third thing was created, it fails to live up to the expectations of either. As a branch of psychology it fails to pass scientific muster, and as a theology, it fails to be Christian. She demands that those who follow her see her as the mediator between God and man. That smell funny to any of you? I know that’s not what my bible says. 

"Trust me more than you trust God's Word", is the siren song of heretics and cults everywhere. While Mary Eddie started out well by turning to scripture for all the answers, she ended poorly by insisting only she had the answers related to theology, salvation, and healing in scripture. The idea that there is some secret knowledge that God doesn’t reveal to everyone, that he has only revealed these things, often secret things, to an individual, and only by following the letter of their commands can they too reach enlightenment is also a common theme in cults. 

The jehovas witness and Mormons do this to a point with their publications and ruling councils. To a JW, the ruling council is called the governing body. They decide what publications are ok for the JW to read, which of their own publications should be censored, what things ought to be studied on a Sunday morning, what things are important in the learning of new converts, and so on. Their control and forced theological dependency is absolute. 

In Mormonism some structure is borrowed in principal if not in name from the catholic church. Their leader Monson can speak on behalf of God, and what he says can situationally be viewed as on par with or above scripture. The latest revelations being the most relevant. For the catholic of course, they believe the pope can speak on behalf of God, and when he does, his word is to be taken over the bible. 

In Christian science whatever Mary Eddy had to say is above the word of God. Its viewed as the proper interpretation of the Word of God. The problem is so much of what she has to say is completely contradictory to the word of God. 

In the protestant church, we believe that the Bible is God’s revealed word to us. It’s a love letter, its our guide. It’s the whole and complete message that God has for us. Its wholly inspired, wholly accurate and incapable of error. In fact most all of the “errors” atheists say the bible contain come back to a handful of things – usually its either a week area of translation into English, or a misunderstanding of an ancient cultural practice. Basically nearly all of them are issues that come from cross cultural communications. Some are atheists intentionally trying to cause trouble. I will say this though, I have never seen a quote “contradiction” unquote, that stood up to any kind of critical thinking. 

I don’t want to stray into atheism, but we had a guy in town this time last year that claims to be a pastor and theologian. But is basically an atheist dressed as one. He tours talking about precieved problems in scripture trying to discredit the book he ought to be teaching if he really were a pastor. Any way, his whole argument that people shouldn’t trust the bible came down to the timing of a certain festival. It was both annual, and then held a second time every certain year, and in the place in scripture he references, it talks about the festivals being held for more days than tradition holds they should have been held. But the problem was that particular year was the 7th year, and so the festival was held a second time immediately following the first festival. 

he conveniently leaves that bit out though, and claims his cultural misunderstanding invalidates the entirety of the bible. Crazy no? 

That’s why we must hold the revealed word of God in high authority. I read a thing this week that was talking about how the bible is like a flashlight. Where you point it, darkness is driven out. But if you never use it, or point it behind you instead, what Good is it? Likewise if you’re not reading scripture, and applying it to yourself, and to where the Lord is leading you, what good does it serve? Do you leave it on your coffee table simply so people will know you are culturally affiliated? What good does that do? Better to let them see Christ in you, and the washing effects of the scripture in your life. 

Secondly I read that the bible is like a telescope. If all you do is stare at the telescope it is a useless space wasting dead thing. You must look at the world through the telescope for it to work properly. Likewise the scriptures are a thing through which you must view life. The bible informs our financial practices, the bible informs our child raising, the bible comments on politics, mans laws, social practice, the bible comments on what our priorities ought to be financial, and social. It talks about what place the church should have in our life. The bible speaks to every aspect of life. Yet how often do we set it aside, and thinking we know better press on? I’ve done it before. We’ve all done it before. 

At that moment, how are we any better than this crazy lady mary eddy? Thinking we know better than scripture, or that scripture isn’t speaking to us on a particular issue, leaving our bibles behind we press on. Praise God when we fail in that arena, cults aren’t formed. 

Christian science believes that Jesus wasn’t fully Gods son, wasn’t truly fully man, wasn’t truly fully existent. He was a thought, and a child enlightened by a thought. They believe the holy spirit is the church, and not a real person, they believe that the very Trinity of God is a lie from the pits of hell. In truth there is more Bhudism in Christian science than there is Christianity or science. 

The light of Gods word, when pointed at a subject in context will illuminate the truth and drive out darkness. That’s why the JW’s and Mormons, and catholics, and Christian scientists don’t want you reading the bible. They are afraid of its power. Trust me over the Word of God they sing in their sinister sirens song. 

That said, lets look at how to reach someone lost in Christian Science.  I had a chance to read a testimony by a woman who had been on the board of elders of the “church” of Christian science and her path to God. Her name is Carolyn poole. She was born in the Christian science cult, was raised in it, was a third generation member of it. Was fast tracked for leadership, and earned her way right to the highest position in the church a woman could hold – the president of the executive board. 

In the midst of all this God was wooing her, slowly drawing her heart towards him. She somehow ended up at a billy graham crusade, and went forward to be prayed for. The whole experience made her feel disloyal. But it did stir in her a desire to study God’s word. She realized that despite being a grandmother, she had never ever once been invited to a bible study in her allegedly Christian church. She tried to find one, asked around, and was shut down hard. So she ultimately had to start one. 

Not surprisingly she started coming across a lot of inconsistencies right off the bat. Mary Eddy said she was the only leader, yet Jesus says hes the leader in mt 23. It wasn’t until she came across a place where Eddy claims to be God, and yet Jesus claimed to be God, and the only way to heaven that she reached a crisis point. She wept, quit going to church, and started praying, and reading, and praying and reading, and then finally she began to see. 

when God brought her to our passage today Jn 14. 1“Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in Goda ; believe also in me. 2My Father’s house has many rooms; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? 3And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. 4You know the way to the place where I am going.”  5Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going, so how can we know the way?” 6Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 7If you really know me, you will knowb my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him.”

It all crystalized in Carolyn pooles mind. She came to the conclusion that there was a lot of difference between what the bible says, and what the Christian Science folks said. She wrote “
First, Mary Eddy was not qualified to refute the Bible and deny Jesus’ message. She was not of virgin birth. Jesus was. Also, when she died her body stayed in the grave. She didn’t come back. Therefore, she can’t really testify as to what goes on after death because she had not been there when she wrote the book, Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures. Jesus had been beyond the grave and had come back, so He knew what is there to report on. Second, she said she based Christian Science on the Bible. The first tenet says, “As adherents of Truth, we take the inspired Word of the Bible as our sufficient guide to eternal Life” (Church Manual, 89th Edition). Yet Christian Science conflicts with the Bible. So if the Bible is right then Christian Science is wrong. But if the Bible is wrong, then Christian Science still is wrong because it allegedly is based on something that is wrong. Third, Mrs. Eddy said that she based her teachings on revelation, reason, and demonstration. Her revelation is Christian Science, which seems to be neither Christian nor scientific. She didn’t demonstrate very much because she didn’t overcome death.”

One good thing, is it seems they are searching and hungry for God. So inviting them to study the bible with you is a great first step, and many of them would probably agree. Second, study passages that talk about the deity of Christ, Christ as the only mediator, Christ as God, and the Holy spirit as God. Its going to prick their conscience. It will give them a little shove one way or the other. I was reading in a book this week that an encounter with Christ will always push you. For some you will be pushed closer to Christ, and for others having your conscience pricked by the presence of Christ will quicken your conscience and in your own rebellion you will harden your own heart. That might happen with some. But in the end the must naturally come to the same conclusion that Carolyn poole came to – that The bible may be right, and if so then Christian Science is wrong. But since Christian science Is ostensibly based on the bible, if the bible is wrong, Christian science is still wrong. 

Ultimately it all comes back to scripture though. Bring them right back to the beginning, and talk about original sin, and how God created things. 

Gospel
Close
