Were going to be talking about works today. Its related to a passage we’ll be reading this coming week, in Isiah 29. were going to be jumping around our bibles today a bit, but we will start in Ephesians 2. If You’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. 

While you’re turning there, lets talk about our people group of the week. 

OK, so who here has memorized ephesians 2:8-9 – Id guess most of us have. Its certainly one I’ve shared from the pulpit week in and week out for several years now. Anyone here know it? 

That’s right For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. Most people, my self included stop there. But the next verse is I think critical for the church in todays world. Lets read vs 10. If you’ve brought your bibles and I hope you have. Vs 10 says “ For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.” 

Works don’t save us. We can never be good enough to save our selves, just like a dead man can’t resurrect himself. Scripture says earlier in ephesians 2, that we are dead in our trespasses and sins. It’s a direct comparison. Dead body does what? Nothing. Maybe stinks, but even that is the result of bacteria, and is a thing a dead body can’t do on its own. No bacteria, no break down, no stink. 

This part is review, I know you’ve heard this a number of times. But I think it – and Paul thought it important to mention in conjunction with the rest of the chapter. 

This passage goes right along with Jesus teaching on the vine and the branches. Lets turn there in fact. John 15:1-5. While youre turning there, I have a few more things to say about eph 2:10. For starters, while it isn’t the works that save us, works are none the less expected of us. 

I was listening to a pod cast this week that was discussing the resurgence of the Promise Keepers movement. Its under new seemingly reformed leadership, which means its somewhat more conservative than it had become by the end, and the new leader was being interviewed. He sort of carefully blow by blow dissected the promise keepers movement of old, and indicated where there would be changes going forward. One thing he said really stuck out to me, he said that by the end of the weekend, you had 30,000 guys who were ready to charge the gates of hell with a small bucket of water, but no one to show them the way. 

Men left feeling fired up, and ready for battle, but without clear and meaningful direction when they got home. Many of them languished – a coal pulled out of the fire and left on the heart – to cool off, and drift further away. In fact one survey said 3:5 men that went to promise keepers and were saved at promise keepers are no longer in church. That matches up with a much bigger demographic – men who were in their 30s and 40s in the 1990s, and went to church at least once a week or more are now in their 60s and 70s. On average men in that ten year age bracket, only 40% of them are still in church today. 

Our church seems to have beaten those odds with God’s help. The men we have in that age group are very dedicated to the Lord, and give freely of their time and treasure to further Christ’s Kingdom. 
So Maybe its because the church at large isn’t great about communicating do this, don’t do that. Help here with this, but no, that’s a sin. It’s a delicate balance to strike. Because on the one hand you don’t want people thinking that the things they do for the church – for God – are going to save them. Because they aren’t. Yet at the same time we have this mandate from God “For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them” to do good works – as opposed to worldly, or bad works, for God. You could wander into legalism. Like some groups do. Jehovahs witnesses for instance, the cult can bar you from heaven if you don’t follow enough of their rules. They are incredibly kind people, and go out of their way to be good neighbors and so forth. But its because they fear what God will do, or the “church” will do if they make a single miss-step. Sadly for them, at the end of the day, they are still as lost as any pagan group because they don’t believe – not truly – in the God of the bible. Our faith, our salvation doesn’t come from works. Works come from our salvation. 

We were absolutely dead, ephesians 2:1 says, dead in our trespasses and sins. Yet because of God’s great love for us he died for us. In so doing vs 5 we were made alive with Christ. Why then should we engage in “works”?

But first lets read John 15:1-5

I have this mental picture – when it comes to people that say they are Christians. Have you ever been to a grape orchard? I knew a guy that had a small one. I think he had plans of starting his own wine company, but he never really got that off the ground. Any way, I saw the orchard one day, he had a series of posts in the ground so many feet apart, and a trellis attached to the top of the posts, and all of these vines growing up along the posts, and out onto the trellis. The fruit would be heavy, and the bunches of grapes for the most part dropped down through the trellis, and were easy to pick. Almost everything that grew in there was a grape, and the grapes were obvious, and stood out from the other things growing. The other thing he liked to plant were hot peppers. Hot peppers apparently like a lot of the same things as grapes, except the hot peppers liked to be shielded from the heat of the day, so it made sense to him to plant both in the same plot of land. Grapes on top, and the peppers growing in rows down below. Those who are in Christ have been grafted in. They produce the same fruit of the original vine. There are some that don’t produce the same kinds of fruit though, in my friends orchard, and any of us can easily tell the difference between a jalapeno and a grape, or a Carolina reaper and a grape. You wouldn’t accidently eat a reaper, thinking you were about to bite a juicy yummy grape. Because you can tell the difference between the types of fruits pretty easily. 

In this passage, fruits are works. Producing fruit is a natural act for a plant, and “works” are a natural outflowing of a human being. 

I’m going to read from one of the important documents that was written after the protestant reformation. Its one of those things that has endured in print for centuries. Some denominations and faith traditions still use this document today to guide their preaching, and bible studies, and as a blue print for discipling their churches across the centuries. 

Any way this document – the Heidelburg confession says this of works “Q & A 91  Q. What are good works? A. Only those which are done out of true faith,1 conform to God’s law,2 and are done for God’s glory;3 and not those based on our own opinion or human tradition.4 1 John 15:5; Heb. 11:6 2 Lev. 18:4; 1 Sam. 15:22; Eph. 2:10 3 1 Cor. 10:31 4 Deut. 12:32; Isa. 29:13; Ezek. 20:18-19; Matt. 15:7-9

This has obviously had its language updated to reflect how we speak today, a translation of sorts. But never the less it has stood the test of time. What is a work? What is good fruit? Those acts which are done out of true faith, conform to God’s law, and are done for God’s glory and Not those based on our own opinion or human tradition. 

This is a huge swipe at the roman catholic church – remember this was written within a few decades of the start of Martin Luther’s 95 thesis being nailed to the door of the wittenburg church. The hammer strikes heard round the world. The act that ignited a reformation back towards scripture. But it is no less a swipe at you and I, and the things man has done throughout history. 

ISA 29:13 says And the Lord said: “Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men,”

Lets put it to the Heidelburg test – Were the things they were doing, just based on what we read, were the things they were doing, done out of true faith?  Conformed to God’s law? Done for God’s glory? Or out of tradition, and outward conformity? Do you think God was happy when he said about them “they honor me with their lips, but not their hearts, and only fear me because their traditions told them to”?

Those who produce fruit like that – like God described, they don’t yet know God. They may be living their life in public outward conformity to what they think God’s word is. Like the JW’s. But at the end of the day, they don’t know God, and you can’t have faith in a stranger. Whats going to happen to them when they die, if nothing changes? When the world who cant always tell the difference between Godly and ungodly fruit bites into your works, will it be a yummy tasty, sweet grape that leads to their salvation, or will it be a spicy jalapeno? 

On a practical level, what are these fruits? They can be found in galatians 5:22-23. fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law. Godly men and women, these are our goals. This is what we are working towards in our own life. We could spend a week of Sundays just talking about these, but lets hit some quick points. Love for instance. Its easy to love lovely people. Its easy to love people that are easy to get along with, that you have a lot in common with, its easy to love people who make your life happier, easier, and more fun. I don’t think that’s exactly all of what Paul means here. Yeah we should love our own. But we should be loving the difficult people too. The book purpose driven life calls them EGR people, or Extra Grace Required. I don’t agree with everything Warren has written over the years, but I liked what he said here “In every church and in every small group, there is at least one ‘difficult’ person, usually more than one. These people may have difficult emotional needs, deep insecurities, irritating mannerisms, or poor social skills. You might call them ‘EGR’ people—“Extra Grace Required.” 

Everyone knows someone like that. I happen to have some neighbors. Some of you work for people like that, are related to people like that, I don’t know all of you out in Facebook land so maybe some of you are even married to people like that. These EGR folks are someones – maybe yours – brothers, and sisters, mothers, fathers, and cousins. Best friends, and so forth. These are the people who make you cringe when you see them. They drain your energy. Their very presence means that the level of drama will be cranked up to eleven. I’ve had a number of people like this in my life over the years. You cant get away from them either. Move to a new town, or state, or country, and you’ll find new people for whom extra grace is required. So what do we do? God has them in our life for a purpose. God uses them like a hammer and chisel to chip away at us. He uses their obnoxious dramatic, painfully awkward selves to chip away at us like a hammer and chisel. Like cheese on a cheese grater ripping away the parts of us God has to cut away. It does NOT feel good to run any part of yourself over a cheese grater. But the dark recesses of our heart, the dirty closets, these places need the sanitizing light of Christ, and often times the best way to deal with those, is for God to put people in your life that are a struggle for you. In the midst of this God is teaching us to love like he does. Regardless of merit. To God each and every human being is an EGR. Jesus has something to say on this topic too, regarding loving the EGR in our midst, he says in Luke 6“32 “If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. 33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. 34 And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount. 35 But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. 36 Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. Regardless of merit. To God each and every human being is an EGR. Each and every human being carries a share because of sin in the blame for Christ’s death. Extra Grace Required indeed. We could go through each of the fruits just like this, To learn joy you have to spend time going through times of unhappiness. And so forth. Not only should we be working on loving people like Christ inside of ourselves, in our hearts, but outwardly too. If you say you love like Christ, but that isn’t something that influences your actions, then do you really love like Christ? I want to take a moment and thank those of you who brought food to the food pantry. Last week I mentioned we used all we had, and would need to buy more, and this week, people brought probably a dozen or more bags of food to help us love our community during this time of need. Sometimes loving like Christ means giving food out, or giving the benefit of the doubt. One sweet lady – who describes her self as a germaphobe came and sat with me during food pantry this past week. She faced her fears to help love on the community, and that’s a good thing! It was a blessing to me, as I didn’t have to be here by myself, and it was a blessing to the community, and I trust it was a blessing for her too. 

What I’m trying to get at here, is each and ever believer has a responsibility as a believer to be engaged in these works. Not because you feel obligated, but because you are grateful for your salvation. How exactly that works out is at the end of the day between you and God. Some people are givers – and will and do and are giving financially. Some are do-ers, and they come and set up communion, andhelp with food pantry, and teach kids, and clean the church and so forth. Some of you are prayer warriors, and the best way you are able to do “works” is to spend time on your knees. There are other ways too. It doesn’t say only serve in the ways you’ve been most gifted. I believe there are times where we are called upon to serve outside of our giftings for a time – look at moses. He had a hard time talking, and how did god use him? He used him to confront the King of the biggest world power, that was oppressing his people. 

Christians, if you didn’t hear anything else today, hear this: The most important work we must be a part of is sharing the gospel. It is a matter of life and death under the best of circumstances, but here in the midst of this pandemic we all need to re-double our efforts to share the gospel. There are people alive today that will be gone tomorrow because of this virus. Because of traffic on 19, because of cancer, and heart disease, and a hundred other things. A lot of the works vary based on your spiritual gifts, but sharing the gospel is not one of those. When Jesus said Go make disciples, he didn’t qualify that. He just said Go. Tell people about the gospel. 

All of this that we’ve been talking about starts with the gospel. IF you aren’t yet a Christian, or you’re not sure, then this is the most important part of today for you:

Gospel.

