Today is memorial day. A day when we remember those who have given their lives to secure our freedom. Have any of you ever been to Arlington Cemetary in Virgina? I had a chance to go one time. I’m still struck by fields of markers for graves of those fallen in the service of our country. I have this picture in my mind of standing kind of on the side of a pretty good sized hill. Everywhere you look as far as the eye can see its rows and rows and rows of headstones. Behind you as far as you can see. To the left, as far as you can see. Ahead of you all the way down to the bottom of the valley, and all the way back up to the peak of the next hill are those who have died in service to our country. Many of whom gave their life in a heroic manner. Somewhere between 400 and 500,000 graved stand testament to our fight for freedom for ourselves and for others. One thing I was asked to say on behalf of a friend who had been in the service, he said “don’t thank a veteran today. We had the chance to come home. We have our own day – veterans day. Today is a day to think about those who gave their lives to set us free”. 

In a very real sense it’s a microcosm of what Jesus did for us. At best a particularly wise, and heroic soldier might save their squad – 7-14 soldiers, in extraordinary circumstances a soldier might save a platoon, or division, or regiment. Maybe even the whole army in a particular engagement. 

When Jesus died he saved the whole world. People from every tribe, and nation and tongue. Past present and future. Scientists think that there could have been as many as 117 billion people. The total number of people on earth right now would be like 7 percent of all of those who have ever lived if they are right. Yet Jesus died for all of them. So that some from every people, and tribe and nation and tongue might be saved. 

So I think its appropriate that we talk about Jesus a bit this morning.
There are a number of passages that talk in specifics about Jesus. The one we read last week, and will be in again this week Is one of the biggest. But there are more. Can anyone think of any other passages specifically that exalt Christ in scripture? 

John 1:1-3 and 14 are huge. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. . . . And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (John 1:1–3, 14) 

There is so much in this passage its hard to unpack it all. Vs 14 tells us the Word is Jesus Christ. So anywhere it says Word we can substitute the name of our King, Jesus. In the beginning was Jesus, Jesus was with God, Jesus was God. Jesus made everything. Nothing exists that wasn’t made by Jesus. He is full of Glory. He is the son of God the Father. He is full of Grace and truth. 

Let me ask this. If I were to take a cup, and fill it with water, All the way full. Could you then add something else to it? My first thought was what about food coloring. Well if its full of water, and you’re able to add food coloring, then you’ve added something to it right? Wrong. Because then its full of water and food coloring. Not water alone. Christ is full of truth. He is so full of truth that there is no room for any mistruth. Likewise He is full of Grace. So full of grace that he has no room for the opposite of grace. I had to google it. I wouldhave assumed disgrace is the opposite of grace. But the opposite of grace is God’s wrath. God’s Judgement. Seperation from God. IF Grace is the state of being undeserving of, and yet receiving anyway the favor and mercy of God. The opposite is where one receives the full portion of what they deserve – God’s righteous judgement, his holy wrath, and ultimately separation from him for eternity. 

Don’t ever say I just want what I deserve. Because of Christ we don’t get what we deserve, and even better we are made heirs to the kingdom. Recipients of hope, and a future. Seated with Christ. We are given so much more than we could have ever hoped for. The opposite of what we deserve. 

Even then there are things that are meant here, but not explicitly said right? Jesus was right there from the beginning with God, being God. There was never a time before Jesus. He was there right from the start. There was never a time when Christ was not. That statement was a big deal when it was first made. There was a council of all the churches across Christendom where they came together to discuss the nature of Jesus. Whether he was the same thing, the same substance as God or not. Whether or not there was a time when Christ was not. They could have saved 55 years of drama and arguing if they had just read John 1 un-altered. In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word Was God. Right from the start they were the same. They are the same. 

Likewise Hebrews 1:2-3 thoroughly exalts Christ saying “In these last days [God] has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. (Hebrews 1:2–3)”

So Jesus life and work is a message from God to us. Jesus is the gospel. The means by which we are saved. Jesus inherits all things. Think about that for a minute. What belongs to God? Youre quick to say everything. But think about the ramifications of that. 

I have told you before about the son Betelguese if we could travel at the speed of light would take around 700 years just to reach. If we wanted to travel around it once? Well Wikipedia says its about 2.4 billion kilometers in diameter. Safe distance is about 100 au, which means in terms of miles one orbit around it would be 96 billion miles, and would take around 140 years. Just to travel to it, and circle it once at the speed of light would take 1500 years! And we cant even approach the speed of light. The Parker solar probe uses venus like a sling shot to propel itself towards the sun. It travels at a mind boggling 430,000 miles per hour. That means if that probe were circling the earth at that speed it would circle the earth every two minutes, and even that mind boggling speed is 6 one hundredths of one percent of the speed of light. 

At our fastest, it would take us between 4 and 5 thousand years to get there, and then hundreds of years to circle it once, and hundreds 4 to 5 thousand more years to get back home. Its likely a 10,000 year trip to betelguese, circle it once, and then come back. 

That’s not even the furthest thing we know of. One recent survey of a dark part of the sky uncovered hundreds of millions of galaxies. Not solar systems like we are in, earth, moon, mars, etc. But whole galaxies like the milky way. Hundreds of millions in a but of night sky just this big. 

Yet betelguese is one of the brightest stars in the nights sky. Next time youre looking at the sky on a clear night, look for Orion, betelguese is at the top of that constellation on the left side. We can see it from earth. Yet still the light we see from it in the nights sky took hundreds of years to reach us. Perhaps as much as 750 years. It so far away if it went super nova and exploded we wouldn’t know for almost a thousand years. And yet, God is the God of all that space. Like Buzz Lightyear said in toy story “to infinity, and beyond”.  Jesus is King of all of that. He’s king of betelguese, and the milky way, and the sun and moon and stars. He's king of earth. King of china, and uk, and austrailia. Jesus is King of the USA, and he’s king of you and I also. Sovereign and in complete control.  Heir of all these things, and everything else besides. Not only that but he upholds all of these things that are so mind bogglingly big. Things so big we struggle to understand the numbers involved. Can you imagine the hands that can hold all of the universe with room to spare? 

Not only that but he’s the radiance of God’s glory. You remember the story of moses? God hid him in the cleft of the rock, while the shadow of his glory passed Moses by, and it left moses fundamentally changed for the rest of his life? Jesus is the radiance of Gods glory.  

That same Jesus chose to be born to small human parents, in a feed trough. In a stall.
That brings us back to our passage from last week. 

Col 1: 15 He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16 For by[f] him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities—all things were created through him and for him. 17 And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together.18 And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19 For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20 and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.
21 And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, 22 he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, 23 if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation[g] under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister.
He is the visible image of God. Thousands of humans walked the earth and saw him in person. First born, and thus the heir of all creation. He created everything, not only here on earth but in heaven also. 

I’m going to gloss over the political one because you guys hear me talk about God being sovereign over politics all the time, but here is yet another passage that supports that. All things were created by Jesus – even kingdoms, dominions, thrones, authorities, even rulers. There is no ruler God didn’t create specifically for the purpose he will call them to. Maybe that’s a blessing, maybe it’s a punishment, maybe its more neutral. But his authority flows from God. 

Jesus is the head of the church. Vs 18. If you’ve been paying attention to the news you’ll see they’ve been making a big deal out of the catholics selecting a new pope. This doesn’t really make a difference for us. Because while the catholics have a mere man as the head of their church, we follow Jesus as the head of ours. Keep the catholics in your prayers, especially the new pope that he would follow God’s will as laid out in scripture. Leading that whole tradition back towards Christ. But for us, Jesus is the head of the church. He’s our leader, our president, our king. I think we forget too easily the power a king wields here in the west. We have a president, and his power is constrained by the constitution. A kings power contains no constitutional constraints. He can order his subjects to do whatever he wants, and they are obligated to comply. In fact peoples lives are at risk if they displease a king. Remember the story of ruth who advocated for her people to the king? Her heroism is remember because for one thing it worked, and for another, if her presence had angered the king, he could have legally had her put to death. His wife. The will of the king is law. 

Our king is Jesus. Our law flows from his character and person. From who he is. We are obligated to follow and obey his will. Now, because of his nature he’s not going to tell us to keep jumping

I like 17 too, he holds all things together. In my rhetoric of physics class we got to talk about things of physics without actually having to do the math. It was a fun class, but one thing that really stuck with me was that the professor said “science doesn’t really understand why our molecules stick together. We know how to make it stop. But we don’t understand how they hold together. We don’t understand why they don’t just lose molecular cohesion. Hey we know, right? Jesus holds all things together. 

Perhaps most important to us, is vs 19 through the end. Lets read that again. 

He contained the fullness of God, and from that position, he chose to reconcile us making peace with the blood of the cross. 

That is, he traded his life, for His fathers glory, and so that we could have peace with God. 

In light of all that Jesus has done, for the Christian we are called to do some specific things right? Scripture in revelation talks about us being able to lay our rowns at the feet of Jesus. Whatever good God has done through us, we can lay those treasures at the feet of Jesus. Its an act of worship and surrender to God. It represents giving our life to him along side other things. Like that one third day song, “I give you my life, for its all I have to give” because you gave your life for me”. 

That’s going to include some specific acts of obedience that God has commanded us to do. Lke be Holy as he is holy. That means for some of you, giving up your addicitons is an act of obedience, something you’ll be able to lay at the feet of Jesus one day. For others you aren’t an addict, but maybe its being honorable when opportunities present where you could have behaved dishonorably. For some, maybe it meant putting your life on the line, or giving your life to protect those who couldn’t protect themselves. Maybe its feeding the hungry. Maybe its going on a missions trip. Maybe its taking seriously and leading well God’s people in worship. Maybe its putting down some thing you’ve allowed to stand between you and God. Some relationship. You know in your heart right now what that thing is, I challenge you right now to give it entirely to God.

For those of you that don’t yet know Jesus, let me show you in the bible how you can have eternal life.
