I was watching Charlie Brown’s Christmas the other day. You guys know the one I mean. It plays pretty much every year at Christmas time. Its sweet, and endearing. It teaches the meaning of Christmas. Its only about 25 minutes long, but, its probably the highlight of tv for me for the Christmas season. The story is about a bunch of kids, sort of jaded with the commercialism of the season. 

I think I can relate to that. The Babylon bee posted an article the day after thanksgiving saying that after a day of thanksgiving the nation repented by pillaging in celebration of commercialism. 

I mean, I even saw two elderly women come really close to a fist fight over a parking spot. They were screaming and yelling and carrying on as I went into the store, and nearly an hour later, they were still outside screaming, and yelling and carrying on. All so they could park 20 ft closer to Walmart. All so they could go spend money on things they cant afford, for people that may not appreciate them. 

The message of Charlie brown really resonated with me this year. But not just because of that. 

The best part for me comes near the climax of the movie. Charlie browns play has fallen apart, the sinfully pitiful tree not even being the worst of it, and he’s turned his thoughts inwards. Saying things like I can’t do anything right. In a moment of despair he shouts “doesn’t anyone know what Christmas is all about”. 

In that moment, shy little linus carrying his blue security blanket says I can tell you Charlie brown. 

He walks over into the middle of the stage, and the lights change. In that moment he does two things. First he begins quoting luke chapter 2, and second, with the first words of scripture that he quotes he drops his security blanket, because when his focus is on Christ, he doesn’t need it. When he’s focused on Christ, he’s secure, and confident. When he’s focused on Christ, his security is found in Christ. And what better place to find security and confidence? 

Any way so he begins quoting scripture. He says from luke 2“And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this [shall be] a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.”. Then, he picks his blanket up, and says “that’s what Christmas is all about Charlie brown”. 

I hadn’t noticed that he picked the blanket up before, but he did. It made me wonder why! But I quickly realized he’s just like us. We have our moments where we are bold, and doing what Christ wanted, and we have our moments where we are timid and shy. We lay our blankets down, and then as soon as the moment passes we pick it right back up. We lay our down our self interests, our idols, our sources of security found outside of Christ. Found in our own sufficiency, or in our own intelligence, or wealth, or health, or whatever. We lay those things down, and when the moment passes we pick them right back up don’t we? I read one author that wrote 

“After the epic, blanket-dropping recitation of Scripture given by Linus in response to Charlie Brown’s quest for meaning, he picks the blanket back up. Isn’t that anti-climactic? Why would Linus pick that old security back up after so boldly proclaiming an end to fear? Why does he leave the stage with that security blanket still in his hand?We first must realize that we all carry that same blanket. Just like Linus, we may stand tall in a moment of faith and conviction, a moment when Scripture hidden in our heart comes to life, and all else is flung aside as we experience and proclaim the true freedom and security that only Jesus can give. But at some point, out of habit, we reach down and pick that thing right back up. Faith, while powerful, is also delicate. Linus clearly knows the truth, and clearly proclaims the truth. The knowledge is there and the wisdom is there and the passion is there. So why does he pick it back up? I think the answer is strikingly clear. It is because we all do the same thing. We know. We feel. We proclaim. Yet we gaze in the mirror one morning to find that tattered old blanket draped over our shoulder yet again. And we realize that we have become so used to it being there that we hardly even noticed it”. 

Its easy to fall back into our old life, and get re-acquainted with our old life patterns. Its easy to try and find security in my effort and actions. Hey sometimes God calls us to bring those things to bear. 

It strikes me that at the end of the show, Linus walks over to the scrawny little Christmas tree, that can’t even hold up a bulb without tipping over, and he takes a thing he loves, and wraps it around the tree to protect it, bring it warmth and stability. He sort of redeems the tree with that one little move. I had never noticed it before, but at that moment they start to play “O Christmas Tree”, but they stop, and transition into something more worshipful. They start singing with hands high “hark the Harold angels sing”. 

Because didn’t Christ do the same thing for us that Linus did for the tree? He took something he loved, and sacrificed it for you and I. So that we could continue to survive, and be comforted, to have security, and hope and a future. 

Their focus changes from inward – from their short comings, and the hard things that are happening in each of the various sub plots, from the disaster of a play, and their focus shifts upward. They begin to focus on God, who after all is the whole point of Christmas. That God would send his son to die on the Cross for our sins. We – like that little tree had no redeeming value on our own. That little tree wouldn’t even make a good fire. But Linus saw something in the tree and decided to save it. God saw mankind, and decided to save us. Not because of any value we brought to the table, but because of who God is. It struck me too, that once they wrapped the blanket around the foot of the tree, the tree changed. No longer was it a 

I love that, at the end of the movie, he lays his blanket down at the tree, there is so much meaning there. We like Linus, should respond to Christ by laying down our wants, and desires at the foot of another tree. At the foot of the cross. Leaving those worldly desires behind, leaving our idols behind. Leaving behind all our worthless trophies, we take what we have and lay them down at the foot of the cross. Whatever we have that’s Good came from God any way right? 

One more passage mt 18:10-14. Will someone read that for me when they get there? Nice and loud. 

In this story, We are all, or have been that lost sheep haven’t we? Either we are the lost sheep now, and God is working to gently lovingly call you back to him, or else Christian, you were the lost sheep, and God used people just like you to gently and lovingly call you to the fold. 

Its interesting, you guys know I have sheep, I did some research once, and found that in bible times they all had one big sheep fold, and every night every shepherd would bring their sheep back to this one big sheep fold. Big pasture, and every morning each shepherd one at a time, would call their sheep, and all their sheep, and only their sheep would come running. Jesus said my sheep hear my voice, and they know me, and they follow me. Likewise a good shepherd knows his sheep.

There is a story going around out of Texas, that a man, a rancher had nearly a million dollars worth of cattle stolen from him over the last year. How can a rancher not know his cattle are missing? Its said of my great grandfather that he could walk into a pasture of 100 strange cows on Friday for five minutes, and on Monday he could tell you which one was missing, or which one should be there. A good rancher, a good shepherd knows their flock and knows when one is missing, and he works to call and bring us back to him. This is the essence of Christmas. God loved us enough to send his son. Think about that, the king of kings and Lord of Lords sent his son, to be born in a feed traugh, surrounded by animals. He deserved the best the world had to offer, and instead was born into some of the most humble circumstances possible. Jesus by rights deserved a palace, and instead got a cattle stall all so he could come here and die to pay the debt we rightfully owed. 

The old hymn says “we owed a debt we could not pay, he paid a debt he did not owe”. The story of the redemption of mankind doesn’t start in a palace. It starts in a manger because of our sin. There is a doctrine called the humiliation of Christ, and it talks about how Christ willingly didn’t get the honors he deserved, indeed he was given far less. 

The humiliation may have begun on the cross, but it reached its peak on the cross. 

I need one of you to open to Psalms 22:1, but stay there, I want you to read a few more verses. Remember this book, psalms was written thousands of years before Christ. We know it to be unaltered as well. We have copies of old testament books that date back hundreds of years before the birth of Christ that we can compare to the tens of thosuands of whole and partial manuscripts that came afterwards, and can KNOW that there haven’t been any changes. That the record is true and accurate. But we knew that already didn’t we? We KNOW that if there is a God – as we believe there is, and if he were going to leave a message for us, as we believe he did, then we can know he would preserve it for us. Alright so read Psalms 22:1, now vs 6, vs 8, 15, and 16 – dogs in this context would be gentiles. If you’ll remember he was being crucified by the romans. That’s enough for the moment. Scripture is absolutely full of these references to Christ. These prophecies that clearly show Christ. There are over 300 prophecies – some even more explicit than these, prophecies that he would be beaten, that they would put a rag soaked in basically vinegar in his mouth, that his clothes would be gambled for, that he would be mocked, that he would be so disfigured by the time he gets to the cross that he would be nearly unrecognizeable. That he would be crucified.  And ultimately the most painful of all would be the social isolation and emotional desertion that Jesus felt. I don’t believe the trinity was shattered by the cross, I believe that the entirety of the trinity felt the full weight of Jesus suffering on the cross. I think all three likely felt the full weight of God’s wrath poured out upon Jesus. We don’t know, its just speculation and we have to be careful lest we stray into heresy. But what we do know, is that we owed a debt we could not pay, and God sent his son, to be humiliated from birth, through life, and ultimately at his death, sent him to drink down the cup of God’s wrath in its fullness all for you and me. It doesn’t matter what you’re going through, God has experienced through Jesus something like it. He knows Paula, what it is to lose a dearly beloved child. He knows what it is to watch your children struggle and suffer. He knows what it is to be wrongly accused. He knows what it is to see loved ones die. He knows what it is to do without, to not know where your next meal will come from, scripture says Jesus didn’t even have a place to lay his head. He was buried, but in a borrowed tomb. A tomb would have been a poor investment any way. He only needed it for three days. Even though the Story of Jesus humiliation culminates at the cross, the story of Christs ministry to us, culminates in the resurrection. He may have died for our sins. But he’s God, and what kind of God would he be if he hadn’t defeated sin. Defeated hell, defeated satan. All so that some might be saved. SO that you might be saved. 

Being saved, starts with the gospel. 




