I’ve had the priveledge of being Chucks pastor for the last few years. He was a good man, and a good friend. He was quick with a compliment, and quicker with a joke. He loved making people laugh, and sing, and playing his guitar. One thing I know for a fact is that he loved each and everyone of you. He would want us to laugh today, and have fun in memory of him. If he were here today, he’d be sitting in the back making faces at me while I preached trying to get me to chuckle, or poking someone near him. He loved to make people laugh and be happy. He was excellent at making people happy with music. I’ve gotten to see a number of his performances at Empire, and have been regaled with stories about how he would just randomly make up lines and add them in to see if people noticed. Apparently if you keep the first line and the chorus the same, almost anything goes. 

He was tenacious too. I won’t retell the whole story, but one time someone tried to steal a guitar from him, and he jumped on the hood of the kids car, and went for a ride across town, and did not stick the landing. Ended up being mostly ok, and maybe kept that kid from stealing again.  

One thing I loved is that when he heard about a need he wouldn’t say a word, He’d just go up to whomever had the need, and slip them a few bucks. It was always thoughtful, and generous, and well received. No fan fare. He wasn’t doing it for attention. He just wanted to love on people that needed it. 

I think all of those things are what lead me to our passage for this morning. 

lets read: Jn: 14 “Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God;[a] believe also in me. 2 In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?[b] 3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. 4 And you know the way to where I am going.”[c] 5 Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?” 6 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.

Let not your heart be troubled reminded me a lot of chuck. He had a sense of humor that he would use to light up the room. I think if he were here that would be his attitude. Don’t grieve for me, I’m somewhere better. Knowing both he and Barbara, and knowing they are believers in Jesus Christ we can rest in the surety that the moment he took that last breath he was standing face to face with Jesus. I think the second moment he was there hugging Barbara, and probably the third thing was cracking a joke. I can almost here him saying “man, no wonder people are dying to get in here”. Something like that. He would want us to rejoice to the extent we can, that he’s not suffering any more. No more confusion. He’s no longer being let down by his body in any way. He’s in the presence of Jesus. He is a strong man, and I don’t know if he’ll cry when he is reunited with Barbara, but if he does, Jesus says in scripture that he will wipe away every tear that’s cried. Since there is no more sorrow, and no more sadness, I believe he’s wiping away tears of joy as we see our savior face to face for the first time, and are reunited with our loved ones who have gone on ahead. 

I know there are people that have questions in this area. Is God good even though he took someone we love home. I think of Grandma Baker when I think of that question. She had a melanoma that had metasticized. If you know anything about cancer melanoma is one you do not want, and metasticized is bad news. Its like dumping gasoline on a fire. In conjunction with cancer, she had a lung condition that meant that she could hardly do anything that she wanted to. Hardly walk across a room without struggling. Yet when she took that last breath 15 years ago this past April, in that moment all of those issues were healed. No more cancer. No more lungs letting her down. No more confusion, and struggle and pain. Shes free to run and dance, again. Her blind eye could see again. She was healed. 

As much as I miss her, I have to ask the question, would it be better for her to be back here with me, or healed with God. For me there is only one answer. Its far better for her to be healed, and in glory with God, than here and continuing to struggle and suffer. 

This is true of Chuck too. We know he’s in a better place. A place he will be for the rest of eternity. A place we can go and join him. 

Our passage today says God has been preparing a place for us. 

This world we live in is pretty beautiful, and I love exploring new things in it. God has blessed me with opportunities to see a fair bit of this world, and according to scripture he made all this in six full days. The sun rose, and the sun set, it’s a day. If God can make things like the grand canyon, or the Teton mountain range, or Niagra falls, Rickets Glenn state park in PA with 22 water falls. All that in six days. Then imagine what heaven will be like. He’s had conservatively 6000 years to prepare heaven for us. I cant even imagine. No eye has seen or ear has heard nor mind can conceive what God has in store for us. 

A man named Dobson wrote that it’s a kindness that God doesn’t let us see heaven and come back to talk about it. He writes we would be so depressed and filled with longing to go back, that resurrection would be cruel. 

And yet as believers in Jesus Christ we have the opportunity to go there. Jesus himself said there are plenty of rooms. 

I’m reminded of a man who once said “If I’m wrong and youre right, I’ve lived a good life, I’ve made the world a better place, and have lost nothing. If you’re wrong and I’m right, then for the one that doesn’t know Jesus, all is lost. 

I had the chance to talk with chuck on some of his last days. I asked him about the funeral, and what would be important. He didn’t have a lot to say to me about it that day, except he said “Preacher, make sure they know how to find me in heaven”. He loved each and every one of you so much. As we prepare to close, I want you to ask your self, what if Chuck is right, and Jesus is real? I believe he is, I know he is. I’ve met him, and you can too. 

All of that starts with the gospel.
