We are reaching the end of colossians this week, and it talks a bit about prayer. Seemed like a good launching point for a sermon on prayer. 

We have a unique opportunity as americans right? We can pretty much go to the white house whenever we wanted, we can visit the capital. We can have an audience with our congressmen, and maybe even our president. This is unique in the world. I’m reminded of the story of ester. You guys remember esther? She caught word that the this guy named Haman was plotting against her people. Plotting to have them killed. 

So she storms the kings chambers, throws wide the doors and exposes Hamans plans. Has haman punished, and convinces the king to allow her people to defend themselves if they need to. King Ahaserous or as hes also sometimes known – Xerxes was quite accustomed to war. He lead his dynasty to victory in wars all over the ancient area we call the middle east. He had control of what we call today Iran, Egypt, a good part of turkey and all of Babylon. He even conquered part of the Greek empire. He was smart, and nervous. Careful. Plotting. Resourceful. Earning his ire caused wars. He was known to have killed people that entered his chambers without his blessing. Even his wife wouldn’t have been above that law. Enter, displease him, and be put to death. 

This type of approach to power was not uncommon in the ancient world, and indeed isn’t uncommon today around the world. I read an article that said to gain an audience with Vladimir putin you’d need to have a petition with no less than 100,000 signatures that must also include at least four members of his inner circle. The inner circle signatures have to be bought. AND you’ll be required to make a payment to Putin as well. My understanding is that it costs almost 50million dollars, plus however long and much it takes and costs to gain that many signatures, to gain an audience with Putin. Its no easy thing. Even more difficult is Kim Jong Un. Who has had those in his inner circle put to death for displeasing him. Supposedly the admiral who launched the first war ship of North Korea was fired when the boat tipped over. Allegedly no ones heard from him since. Life in prison? Put to death? Maybe. Its north korea after all. 

This kind of thing isn’t uncommon in our world at all. From Kim jong un, to putin, to chinas xi, or the supreme leader of modern iran. You can’t just approach power. You have to have something they want. You have to have given them a reason to want to see you. 

Apparently for Steven Segall, all he had to do was become a famous movie star, make a big deal about how Ukraine should still be part of Russia, and then say meeting putin was his dream of the last 17 years. Then he got an audience with Putin at the far end of a comicly long table, with an incredible amount of soldiers, spies, and so forth all in the room. 

lets read our passage – Col 4:2-4

For the Christian, to have an audience with the God of all creation, with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords all we have to do is start talking to him. And he listens to us. How marvelous is that. 

A lot of people think its hard or complicated. But its not that different from talking to your friend. If I had a chore coming up and I needed help, I might call Richard up and ask him for it. Hey Richard? Are you busy later on today? I have a project I need your help with. Excellent thank you my friend. 

Prayer is communication in the context of relationship with God. 

As Baptists we have a few confessions of faith. These are documents written by men, outlining their understanding of scripture as best as they could. Brighter men than we are would toil over these things for years before finally publishing them, and I think it speaks to their careful approach that these things have been in print ever since. The Second London Baptist confession of faith from 1689 (and its catechism from a few years later)  encourage us to pray like this based on the Lords prayer, which they see as not a prayer to recite but as a model for prayer the church should use.   They break it down into 5 parts:
•	Adoration: “Hallowed be Thy name”
•	Submission: “Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done”
•	Supplication: “Give us this day our daily bread”
•	Confession: “Forgive us our debts”
•	Spiritual Warfare: “Deliver us from evil”

First express our love or adoration for God. Second is submission or indicating our desire for what the Lord wants as being better and more important than what we want. 

This is easy to say, but difficult in areas that we rightly hold closest to our hearts. For the American in 2025, politics is one of those things. Our families are another. I know I’ve shared this story before, but it makes me chuckle. A young couple had been coming to church for a year or so, and they were going through some hard times. Anyone ever been through hard times? Certainly. We all have, are or will be. So any way, I had an opportunity to give away one scholarship to bible camp at word of life. So I filled out the paperwork, was approved, and gave the scholarship to them for their daughter. Who would have an all expenses paid week at word of life bible camp. 

When I gave it to the husband, he looked like he had just licked a lemon. The following week, he ripped it up and gave it back and said “why would you do something so mean to us?”, I was shocked, because there was no mean-ness intended. Just love for them, and an opportunity for them to have a week to themselves, and their daughter a week in bible camp. He continued “You wanted to send our daughter to bible camp, and we know what goes on at places like that. Sometimes kids come back from that and want to be missionaries. What if our daughter decides to get serious about this Jesus stuff and leave to become a missionary?. 

In that moment, for them, their family was an area where they were not in submission. Right? There are places and times we struggle to be in submission to God. Our families are a key area there. 

Thirdly was supplication. That’s where we put our requests in. We ask God to help those we love that are struggling. OH. For thos of you who have been praying for Kathryn – the little girl with the heart tumor, she has successfully been installed with a pacemaker, they have weaned her off the medications for anxiety and her heart, and have sent her home. She will still need to receive a new heart. But the doctors are hopeful about her prognosis. Her memory is still full of holes about her time in the hospital, but that’s honestly a mercy, and her memory seems to be intact about current things which is also a gift. So do keep her in our prayers. But this supplication stage is where we bring those kinds of requests before God. This is an appropriate place to pray for our country, for the wars we are involved in directly, and indirectly. For the people of Israel, of Iran, of Ukraine, and of Russia. It’s a good place to pray for the mothers who are considering things like an abortion. It’s a good place to pray for health concerns and any and every request big or small. 

I know someone that has said in the past “that is too small a thing to pray for, don’t pray for me for that”. But I’m reminded of a story in the old testament, in 2nd kings 6 if you want to read it at home. This guy is cutting down trees to help build a home for Elisha, and his entourage. But when he swings the axe, the head pops off, and ends up at the bottom of the river. Its just an axe head right? 5 bucks at a garage sale, maybe twenty bucks for a whole new axe, handle and everything at the home improvement store? Not a whole lot for us today. But this man had borrowed his axe, and it concerned him that he would be unable to return to his master his masters axe. So God showed up for this request, and had elisha toss an axe handle in the water, and the axe head attached it self to the handle, and they resumed chopping trees down. It may have been a small request, but God cares about even the little things in our lives. 

The next phase of a prayer is confession. No one likes to think about or be reminded of the things they have done that are wrong. But its an important part of certainly our private prayer life, and can be a valid part of our public prayer life. None of us are perfect. Most of us either are or have dealt with whatever it is youre struggling with. We certainly have no stones to throw.  We don’t confess because God somehow doesn’t know our short comings, because he does. He knows everything we have ever done, are doing, and will ever do good or bad. Sinful and otherwise. Confession is for us. Its healing to our souls. It helps us stay humble, and understand that we aren’t alone in our struggles. It shines a light on our enemies tactics. And its commanded by God, to confess our sins. 

Final is spiritual warfare – deliver us from evil. Which is one of those things that depending on your tradition is either over emphasized or underemphasized. Some traditions have people talking about how there’s a demon in your lawnmower. I mean, Maybe there is. But its more likely not running because you didn’t check the oil. You know? Our enemy doesn’t particularly care if we mow our lawns or not. He cares about making us sin, about enticing us to elevate certain things in our lives to a point more important than they should be. He wants us to sin, and wants us to not worship God right? So if somehow your lawn mower breaking furthers the goals of our enemy, than sure. Maybe. But I think hes more likely to attack us in other ways. He’s more likely to attack us by allowing us to see a naughty commercial late at night men, or to attack us by allowing us to daydream about what life would be like without our current spouse. He’s more likely to attack us by saying things like “if this elephant or donkey gets elected, our country will be ruined”. That whole line of thinking depends on a whole host of sins – and I see the reaction in some of your eyes. So hear me out. Is God sovereign and in control of all things? We know from scripture he is. So in saying unless we vote this way or that way, unless this is done or not done, our country will be ruined, it says “we think our vote, and effort is more important than God’s”. You elevate your own role, and diminish Gods. Should we vote? Yes absolutely, every chance we get. I always vote. I tell people, if you don’t vote you can’t complain to me about politics. Haha. But we should also know our vote is subject to the sovereignty of God, just like the elected official is subject to God’s sovereignty. IF God wants our country to succeed, no individual or group of elected officials will be able to overcome God’s will in the success of our nation. However if God chooses to punish us – and we know from the Old Testament, sometimes God punished Israel by allowing their nation to be destroyed right? – if God chooses to punish us, one of the means he could use to do so is through the destruction of our nation. Could our vote stop that, if its what God has willed to happen. We serve a God that in the words of George Müller “not only orders our steps, but he also orders our stops”

Should we vote? Yes. We should make informed votes. But we also need to submit our vote to God, and be in submission to God on this issue. Was God within his rights to give us another Trump presidency? Yep. Would God have been within his rights to give us another Ronald Reagan presidency? Yep. Would God have been within his rights to give us another Barrak Obama presidency? Yep. Would God have been within his rights to give us another Biden Presidency? Still yep. Whether you liked any of these men or not. The bible says there is no authority except that which God has established. So thinking things like “this president is going to ruin our country” is sinful because it elevates our hopes into something as feable as a nation. When our hope is rightly only in God. It makes of our country a type of idol. Something we should confess. 

Alright. With the time that we have left.  I want to pray through some of these things. 

So when we are working on Adoration, we only pray our praise to God. Nothing else. Not yet. Hold off on everything else. Just Adoration. Ok? Then we will move on to submission. Give in submission the areas in your life you recognize maybe you haven’t, and give all the things you have submitted to him on too. Make sense? But just submission at that point. Then our requests, and we will conclude with thanksgiving. A time of thanking God for the things he’s done for us in our life. 
Say them with me: Adoration, Submission, Confession, Supplication, thanksgiving.
But remember ONLY pray the part were working on now. Its going to be tempting to pray for everything all at once. But were doing something different today. Just one phase at a time. You can pray once, or multiple times, or not at all. But I promise you’ll get more out of it if you pray along with us. 

Lets start with Adoration. I’ll open. We will JUST pray our adoration of God, and when we have prayed ourselves empty, I’ll lead us into the next section. Ok?
Say them with me: Adoration, Submission, Confession, Supplication, Thanksgiving.
