This is our fourth and final sermon on the scriptural doctrines of grace. 

We talked about our own inability to save ourselves, and the extent to which sin has corrupted us and fogged up our glasses so we cant clearly. We talked about how as a result we naturally didn’t want anything to do with God. So God had to come save some of us. It wasn’t because of merit, simply because hes good and kind and gracious while still being fully just and holy. We talked about how there is nothing so bad that we can do to cause Christ or God to reject us. Finally we are going to talk about one of those very Baptist phrases – one that builds on and assumes all the rest of these things we have talked about. Its called “once saved always saved” or to use the words of the reformers, they called it perseverance of the saints. 

That sort of makes it sounds like it has something to do with mans effort. It doesn’t. However there is a group of people out there that believe we have to work to maintain our salvation. If we slow down, we can lose it, or we can choose to give it back. Because of that R.C. Sproul likes to call it preservation of the saints. That has its own issues… but the name is not as important as is the question of whether or not the idea is based in scripture. Fortunately for us, it is. Otherwise, we would have no hope. 

Back when I went to Trinity I went to school with this guy named Josh Havel. I really didn’t know him too well, but I met his sister while she was visiting campus. He and I became friends because she and I became friends. 

Any way Josh held to that position – that salvation could be lost or given away. That’s one extreme on the scale, at the extreme other end people believe that if you believe something like that about God then you’re not really saved. So while Rachel was visiting Trinity within a week of her having been saved, a group of four or five guys at this other extreme end got together and kind of attacked her with the bible. Flogged her with scripture and told her that she was still lost because she didn’t believe in eternal security. Obviously, that’s nonsense. No one can point to any place in scripture that says unless you believe in eternal security you are going to hell. They had part of it right. The bible does support eternal security, but they had part of it twisted too. There is no verse in scripture that says “if you get mans role in salvation messed up you’re going to go to hell”.  Long story short, her brother and I got to be pretty good friends, and I’d joke with him about whether he had found his salvation or not, and if he had, to be careful not to leave it on the roof of his car, it might get lost again. Sometimes he’d respond “fortunately for me someone turned it in at Walmart, so I got it back”, or “I left it in my other pants”. 

This issue is one where there are good Christians on both sides. However, I believe the scripture is clear regarding God’s perspective. 

It builds upon all these other things that we’ve been talking about. If Man is unable to save himself. Unable to believe in God, unable to do even a single thing truly good with pure motives, then how can we expect that we can maintain our salvation? We can’t earn it, we couldn’t catch if if we were trying to chase it. We couldn’t do anything to achieve salvation on our own. If our salvation were up to us, heaven would be occupied by God alone. Even if we could clearly see what was required for salvation, we would – according to Paul in 2 cor 2, consider it foolishness and refuse to pursue salvation. So God had to work in us, to bring us to a point where we could even see him, and work in us to draw us toward himself, and so its no surprise to me that God has to work in us to continue to draw us towards himself after we are saved. He has to hold onto us to keep us from running too far away. 

Jonathan Edwards says basically that God left it up to us the first time, and we failed dramatically. So knowing we would fail, God came up with a new and better covenant. A covenant is basically Gods “deal” with us for salvation. One that didn’t depend upon us because as a race mankind has proven we can’t be depended upon. The rest here is a direct quote: [God is] able to save to the uttermost all that come unto God through him, and ever lives to make intercession for them.  God did not see it fit that man should be trusted to stand in his own strength a second time. It is not fit that in a covenant of grace, wherein all is of mere, free, and absolute grace, that the reward of life should be dependent on the perseverance of man, as dependent on the strength and steadfastness of his own will.  It is a covenant of works, and not a covenant of grace that suspends eternal life on what is the fruit of a man’s own strength.

We know Ephesians says “for it is by Grace you have been saved, through faith, and this not of yourself, it’s the gift of God lest any man should boast”. I think we’ve pretty thoroughly understood that we CANT be depended upon to save ourselves. 

Alright I need some volunteers. We read the whole thing last week, were going to hit the highlights this week. Someone read John 6:37, someone else 39, a third person can read 44, a fourth can read 63 and 65. We have another passage for later. But for now lets start with 37. 

All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. We talked about that last week – that’s election. Who can tell me who or what that is? 

That’s right so because we can’t and won’t choose God for ourselves because instead of God we chose sin, and continued to choose sin for centuries upon centuries, God had to make a way. He made that way through Jesus. But we still wouldn’t choose God. So God through the holy spirit begins working in us before salvation to draw us towards his son. The elect are those people God through the holy spirit begins a work in. In our passage today, the elect are those who are given to Jesus. All who are given to Jesus will never be cast out. You can never do anything so bad that Christ can’t forgive you. All who are given to Christ, will remain Christ’s. 

Ok someone read vs 39

Not only will you not be cast out, but Christ is actively working to keep you. It strikes me that People are so much like sheep. We had this one sheep. I forget her name. She was half Katahdin, and half babydoll sheep. Babydoll sheep are cute, they have extra wool that grows on their face. They sort of look like they have unusually large eyes as well. Any way, we were given this sheep. We go out there one day and we see her limping. Its not a broken leg, and she is still eating. Any way, we start looking into what to do. It was this long involved process, daily shots of multiple kinds, we had to force a vitamin drink down her throat, and we had to make sure she didn’t lay down more than so many hours a day…. It was stressfull, time consuming, and neither the sheep, nor mom and I liked having to do this for the sheep – and it went on for weeks and weeks. We didn’t want to lose this sheep we loved. After I think three or four months, we went out in the morning and found this sheep dead. All the medical things were done just right. But yet she still died. And what did Jesus say? And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me. Where we as humans fail, God succeeds. Before Jesus said he won’t cast any out, and now he says he won’t lose anything of all that God has given him.  

Not only can you not lose your salvation, but you can’t get rid of it either. I’m reminded of that childrens song – “he’s still workin on me. To make me what I need to be. It took him just a week to make the moon and stars, the sun and earth and Jupiter and mars. How loving and patient he must be because he’s still workin on me. Jesus is still working on each and every one of us, drawing us ever closer to him. So that one day when we die, we can spend eternity with him. This also brings him glory, that he would reach down, and grab dirty old sinners like you and I, and rescue us from the noose of sin we’ve all gladly fastened around our hearts. 

We read vs 44 last week, but its well worth reading again. Someone read it for me. 

Because we are so lost in our trespasses and sins apart from God, because our vision is so clouded, because we’ve so radically corrupted every fiber of our being with sin, we no longer know which way is up, so God has to lovingly guide us back to the fold. John said No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.

Alright vs 63 and 65 The flesh is no help! Only when God has begun to do a work in us can we possible have any interest in him. 

The good news is that makes it easy for someone to know if they are truly saved or not. Search your heart, really dig deep. Evaluate your motives. Why do you come to church? Do you come simply because it makes you feel good? Is it for the friends that have become or are becoming like family? Or for reading your bible? Do you read your bible because its expected of you, or because you want to better know the savior that died for you?

Long story short, is your interest really in Him? Or is your interest in a peripheral benefit. If your primary interest is in something other than Christ for Christ’s sake, then probably you aren’t yet saved. 

One more passage before we close. I want you to make a note of where to find this one. John 10:25-30. 

While you’re turning there, Jesus had just finished a big talk about his role as the good shephered. He talks about how if a wolf comes, he fights the wolf, but if we were being helped by a hired hand, the hired hand would run. But Jesus loves us, because we are his own. He is willing to lay down his life for us so that his mission from God can be fulfilled. He rightly says that he is the good shepherd. 

He says something remarkable that I want to touch on, briefly. He says he knows us, as he knows his father. I think those of us who have been Christians for long will kinda gloss over that, and take it for granted, but we shouldn’t. God the father and Jesus are one. They are two parts of the same God. Its like the left side of your body, verse the right side of your body. Does your right brain not know what your left half is doing? Of course, and does your left brain not know what your right half is doing? Of course! Everything known to one half of your brain, is known to the other half. There may be specializations in different areas. But you can have half your brain removed and given enough therapy and time, the remaining half of your brain can fully control every aspect of your entire body. Our relationship with Christ is like that. All who are given to God are as known to Jesus (and God), as we know the other half of our body or the other half of our brain. 

That’s a pretty intimate level of knowing. That means you have never had a thought, made an action, or had a secret that Jesus didn’t also know too. 

I heard a preacher say once you need to give Jesus all your deep dark closets, and darkest secrets. Preacher, he was there when you did those things, he knows you! There isn’t a thing he didn’t know about you. He knew and knows you better than you could ever know your self. The most remarkable part is that despite intimately knowing the fullest extent of our radical corruption, despite having measured the deepest most disgusting part of our sinful souls, he chose to love us any way. He chose to die for us any way. He chose to maintain our salvation going forward. 

Ok, are we all in John 10:25?

Simple really. If you don’t believe, you haven’t yet had God’s rejuvenating work begin in you, and so you are lost. If you don’t believe you aren’t one of Jesus sheep. 

So in our other passages, we learned that God wouldn’t reject us. That Christ was actively working to keep us, but we learn here that Christ will NOT lose you. He won’t reject you, you can’t reject him, and no one can snatch you away. 

Once he has put his call on your heart, you can’t be lost. When we hear the phrase perseverance of the saints, its not us that perseveres it’s God’s work through Christ that perseveres. A benefit of that for us is eternal life with Christ. 

Isn’t that comforting, and re-assuring? That for the true believer, you can’t be so bad, you can’t run so far, or so hard that you can get away from God, because God through Christ is actively working to persue you, and he’s already decided he won’t reject you and he knows that when you see him, really see him for the first time you won’t reject him either. 

As we close, we would normally close with a song. But I want you to spend a moment searching your soul. 

Why do you come to church? Why do you call your self a Christian. is your interest really in Him? Or is your interest in a peripheral benefit. If your primary interest is in something other than Christ for Christ’s sake, then probably you aren’t yet saved, you’re still a person lost in their trespasses and sins. Scripture says you’re a corpse, but what better gift can a corpse be given than life? So think about the motivations of your heart. And in a moment, were going to close in prayer. (Pray to end Abortion!)
