There are a couple of cities that hold a very prominent place in both the Old and New Testaments. Jerusalem being the first one. Jerusalem means in Hebrew quite literally and in a quite wooden translation Foundation of Peace. I think that is partly why David called it that roughly a thousand years BC. It was meant as a place to project not only David's earthly power, but God's power and provision for his people. It was also known in local parlance as the city of David. Another city was also known by this descriptor. Bethlehem was also a city of David, and through one of the children born there today we too can rest upon a foundation of peace.

If you've brought your bible, and I hope you have, the second city is the one we will be reading about today in Gen 11. It is a city of confusion, of pride, and a tribute to God's sovereignty over the will of men. Just in case you ever thought your will, your decisions, your wants were more powerful than God's. In order to believe that I think you must have never read Jonah, or pretty much the rest of the bible, tonight's passage addresses that idea directly.
(read Gen 11:9)
It's interesting to me that people could ever come to the conclusion that they can in their own power be like God, have his power, or through sheer force of will overcome God's designs. I think it speaks to a certain arrogance that we exhibited at the fall, and thereafter. This mentality of I, what I want, what I need, when I want it is incredibly pervasive in our culture.

A friend of mine was a missionary to Africa for a number of years and was trying to describe McDonald's to one of them one day. He told his friend that there is a house marked with a certain sign, and when you drive up to the window you tell them what you want, and they pass it out, and you drive on! This was shocking to the African man because what ever happened to hospitality? That's a horrible host, and a horrible guest. People had to pay to visit their friends for supper? People didn't stay and eat with their friends? Who eats and drives in their car? They were horrified about the "me first, I want it now" aura that this puts off. This is something that we have deeply embedded within our own culture this arrogant I want it my way right now way of going through life. It's something we've been acclimated to within our own culture. It's like the old saying about how do you boil a frog? Slowly. You turn the heat on and warm the water a little bit, then turn it up, slowly over time and before the frog knows it the water is 212 degrees and he's about to be someone's lunch. The same thing has happened to people, and the church over time. We want results now, we want our food right now, and we want our vices just as fast.

According to Google the 9th most searched term on the internet yesterday was Mischa Barton topless twitter picture. Relationships were meant to be built over time, in an atmosphere of trust, and we short circuit that by searching en masse for quick and easy gratification without the context of a marital relationship.

The letter I is at the root of every sin. Do any of you like to watch Bones? Or Sherlock, or Cops, or any of the police procedural programs on TV? At one point in pretty much every investigation Detective Booth (on Bones) or whomever asks the suspect "just tell me why you did it", and the answer pretty much universally starts out with "I wanted" "I needed", or any of a hundred other things that all lead back to I. It was going to be awkward politically, or I needed the money, or I just wanted to show so and so what it felt like to go through that. It's inherently arrogant because in every sin, like every crime they are taking the place of God in some way. I needed a ride, so I stole one. But maybe God had a reason for you to be walking on a certain road that day? Maybe he was working in you to produce more of the fruit of the Spirit? But the individual short circuited it all and stole the car because they didn't feel like walking or taking the bus. Or people that steal from homes, or the latest thing I've heard about in our area involves stealing from Walmart, and then returning the item for store credit, and then taking that gift card to a pawnshop and selling it for a small fraction of its real value. Then taking the money and buying drugs. Stealing is a short cut to drugs, and a lot of times drugs are a short cut around finding your joy in the Lord. They can steal electronics from Walmart, to get their drugs, so they can feel an artificial happiness for a while, so they don't have to spend time building a relationship with God which results in true and lasting happiness. Drugs only last for a time, and then you have to pay the piper as they say. You're up for a time, and then you're down for an equivalent time. I was talking to a person that lives in Kentucky, and he was telling me he's been able to quit taking all of the prescribed mood management drugs and is only smoking pot. He smokes a half oz daily which seems like an alarming amount of pot each day. He was asking me to pray for him to be able to sleep at night, he'd become an insomniac after several years of smoking pot. I told him to lay off the pot and he'd find sleep. The drugs that slowed him down and gave him a high during the day caused his body to have too much energy at night. The drugs that made him forget about his problems, caused him to never really have to deal with them in the first place. That's true of all drugs — even alcohol.

Put in the time, and the effort into building your relationship with God, into saying no to yourself, and yes to God and you'll never be disappointed.
Obviously this wasn't what happened in our passage tonight. The people who settled in Babel decided they could build a tower so tall they could reach the heavens. They wanted to be like God, and rather than building a relationship with him, and allowing that relationship to refine them over time, they thought they could just build a tower and get there on their own.

Obviously we know they never would have been able to build a tower literally to heaven. They would have eventually pierced the atmosphere and died of lack of oxygen perhaps — the realm of God isn't a place we can walk to. So God decided to put a halt to this foolishness. Something a commentator pointed out that I think makes a lot of sense, and you will remember we talked about how sin creeps in, starts small and grows? Imagine if sin were given 900 years to take root in the lives of man. Scripture talks about sinning as if it's our job apart from Christ, imagine if you had 900 years apart from God to allow evil to perfect itself in your heart. That was how long Noah lived — 950 years (Gen 9:29). His sons lived a little less than that, and their sons less still… Everyone after Adam was born with that seed of sin in their hearts. Not everyone after Adam was given 900 years to allow that seed to mature into a mighty oak in their lives. What must people have been like leading up to the flood? I think in this moment God saw that people were already returning to that way of life, and one way to slow it down was to confuse the languages. It would certainly put a stop to their current unified effort, and would hamper any future unified attempts. Back then they couldn't pull out their laptop and activate their Rosetta Stone software and learn what the other person was trying to say.
So far we've talked about how man sinned against God in the same old ways then and now. In Babel and today in America. That we desire to short circuit the created order so we can appease our selfish ambition, and feed our own arrogance. One more observation as we prepare to close.

Look with me at verse 9 "there the Lord confused the language of all the earth" it wasn't just at Babel that these same sins were being committed — just like today these same sins are committed world over, not just in Florida.
There is a common sentiment amongst young people in our area that they need to move away and find a place where sin is harder to get tangled up in. I've never come right out and said this to them but there is no place this side of heaven where one will be able to live their life without encountering individuals lost in sin. Pasco is no different than any other part of the world. The specific sins this area, or that area are tangled in may be slightly different. But in the end the root is always the same. The root is I. The results are chaos, and confusion. Heartache, and loss. Always.

But God gave us a way to be free of that. Remember we talked about Jerusalem, and how it meant foundation of peace? One of the descendants of David was a man you might have heard of. He was born in the same city as David — in Bethlehem. Which like Jerusalem was called the city of David. Through him, by forming a relationship with him, you can find peace. The man's name is Jesus. We created a world of chaos, and confusion, of heartache and loss, and death, but Jesus came, and restored order, and cleared up confusion, he restored people to their families and brought peace and love to the heartbroken. He even died, and then defeated death so that one day we could be with him in paradise.

What other religion has as its main figure a man who lived so long ago but is still alive? Who else has defeated death and came back to tell us the way to heaven?

Scripture says salvation is simple — Romans 10:9 says that if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.

If that's you, if looking back over your life you realize you've been living for yourself, and not for God, and you're ready to become a believer in Jesus Christ then come talk to me. If you are a believer but you slip back sometimes in this area and would like prayer, then come talk to me. The bible says "cast all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7). So if you want to come up to the altar and pray, you are welcome to do so while the praise team is singing their song.

[CLOSE]

Pray for a youth pastor, pray for him to be fully equipped in love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, and self-control. That he be sensitive to the Holy Spirit, that he have a love for teenagers, that God sends us a man that the Lord can use, and use effectively to model what it means to be a believer in Jesus Christ. That he would have a great impact in the community, and a heart for evangelism. That his family would be being prepared even now, and in the same ways. That his wife would be a great example for the girls growing up, and that they would be the kind of people that commit for the long haul. That God would give them the endurance to stay and minister in that role for the long haul. Pray for the protection and growth of all those who've been baptized recently and all those who are yet to be baptized. Pray for those of us in school that you would help us remember everything we're taught, that we would bring glory and honor to you in the way we study, in every test, quiz, midterm, final and in every paper, that what we learn would bring you glory, and would be used to bring you glory and honor and bring people into your kingdom.

Announcement: Dessa getting baptized on Wednesday.
