Such a great crowd of witnesses.
Do any of you watch the Olympics? I remember one time when I was younger we were watching the summer Olympics, which are the Olympics I'm going to watch if I watch them. So any way, this would have been back towards the early to mid 90s. I was sitting in my parents living room and we watched a man run and jump 22'! I remember sitting there transfixed as the guy seemed to float in the air for minutes. He eventually landed, and my dad pointed out that he had basically just jumped from our fireplace, over the living room, over the dining room and landed on the bed in the spare bedroom. If he had jumped straight up, he would have jumped higher than our stilt home. It was an incredible feat of training. Another time, I remember the first time I had seen Royce Gracie fight. It was an episode of compiled fights to honor the man around when he retired. He was 5'8, maybe 140 or 150 pounds. Not a huge guy, but he was all muscle. This huge samoan that weight 450 pounds came out, and the two started to fight. Gracie quickly caught the guy off guard and took the much bigger man to the ground, and ended the fight in the first minute of the first round. Gracie put everything he had into that fight, to the point where winning had cost him his arm – he'd shattered the arm he was using to submit the samoan. He still won, but the cost was high. Another athlete I've admired is Ronda Rousey. She's no role model outside of the ring, but inside I've only ever seen one fight of hers go beyond the first round. She's like a hurricane from which you can't escape. Tito Ortiz was like that too. The round starts, and he would move like a tornado, a steady barrage of punches that had enough power behind them to knock anyone out. People would get punched in the face until bell rang, they were knocked out, or their team threw in the towel. I think its possible Paul had the greek Olympics in mind when he wrote chapter 12. He talks about running, and a great cloud of witnesses. I remember my father one time was in some kind of marathon. I don't remember the name of it, or where it was held … But I do remember sitting on my mothers shoulders, a big fence, and cheering as he came across the finish line. That's the word picture here. My Dad didn't finish first, though I think he did beat his friend. So there were lots of athletes that had finished before him, who were there at the end cheering people on. Not only the athletes, but their families and friends as well. For us life is not really a race so much as it is a marathon. In a marathon, unless you are an exceptional athlete you merely are competing against your previous scores to know that your condition has improved and so forth. To have a tangible way to measure how much all of the training has paid off. In Mixed Martial Arts, you have instant feedback. Ortiz would go to training camp in the mile high city for 10 weeks, and after that he'd hop on a plane the night before his fight and fly to whatever lowland city he was going to be fighting in, weigh in, and then in 3-5 minutes he would be able to see the results of his training. With a Marathon you have to ride a bike until your legs feel like they are going to fall off, swim until your arms feel the same way, and run for miles. So let me ask you this, if you were planning to run a marathon, would you wear a sumo wrestlers suit in the actual marathon? Would you strap yourself to a hangliders kite? Would you deploy a parachute before you did the bike portion? Of course not, that would be ridiculous, and yet we do that in life. Without taking a poll, I feel pretty confident in saying that each and everyone of us in this room has been entangled by a sin at least once this week – probably once today. Its easier to fall into sin than it is to avoid it, but that's exactly what the author of Hebrews says we are to do, throw off every sin that so easily entangles and run with perseverance. Cut that parachute! Maybe its drugs – cut it. We've had some that are here with us who struggled with alcohol, they had to cut that parachute. Surely some of us have struggled with pornography, or sex outside of marriage – cut that parachute! If you want to fight like Royce Gracie, you can't do so in a sumo suit. You need to be lithe and athletic. You need to be unencumbered! Yet so many people, even Christians – probably even some of us, maybe most of us in this room are still encumbered with a pet sin. Now for the long time Christian, its may be, but probably isn't a sin of commissions. I don't see Kenny Duffield running to a strip club to get drunk. Usually for us its sins of omission. Things like not sharing the gospel with our lost loved ones. Things like not reading our bible – how many of you in this room have read your bible today prior to church? What about prayer? Have you guys prayed today prior to church? What about yesterday? What about this past week? Are you like the swimmer that first ties himself to a boat anchor? Untie yourself and read your bible! Pray! Share the Gospel!



But at the end of our life, and at the end of the race our loved ones are there cheering us on – both from heaven and earth – missing us, but happy we have won the race, and will be with our savior. None of the sports stars we talked about won anything strapped to a millstone – unstrap yourself! Train! In order to build your muscles and to train for the race we are already in, we have to read our bible, pray, share the gospel, worship, and fellowship with other believers.

SO often I think we do the last two at the expense of the other three. Going to church is important, critical, but so is reading your bible on your own time, and praying as well. When I was a kid, and still the current batch of nieces and nephews love to make a "whirlpool" in the pool. Everyone inside runs the same direction building momentum, causing the pool water to swirl like crazy. The fun stops when the littlest one gets swept off her feet. IF you want to keep the water moving you have to keep moving. If you stop, and get out of the pool for a week, do you think its still going to be swirling next time you get in? why then do we neglect our relationship with God except on days that end with church. You've heard the old adage the Bible will keep you from Sin, or else Sin will keep you from the Bible… This is true of us as well.

Have you ever had a fair weather friend? I knew this girl. Lets call her "Jane". She was a friend of my sisters, I was friends with her older sister (who is now on the missions field) so we ended up spending some amount of time together. Her sister left for the missions field, and so no longer had a way to get where she needed to go (usually to my sisters house). Jane would call me out of the blue to give her a ride. Jane would call me out of the blue to fix her computer. Jane would call any time and every time she needed or wanted something. I was attending Trinity by this point, and she lived between my house, and school – so I was able to help her out a fair amount. Early on she was friendly, offered gas money (Which I usually turned down), and would call to chat on occasion. By the end, Jane's "requests" were demands. She'd be angry if I couldn't help, and she expected me to pay for the gas to help her out. If I was out of gas, and couldn't help, Jane would have a fit. Sometimes my sister would throw me a couple bucks. When Jane started to get this way, I came to realize that she was not really my friend, she just was using me. She is to this day a user of people. She acts friendly until she gets what she wants, and then you're discarded like yesterdays news paper. It took me a couple weeks to decide what to say to her. But I finally said "girl, I really don't mind helping a friend. I really don't. I don't ask you for gas money unless I'm making a special trip. I've never asked you to pay for my time in driving you to see my sister. But you are starting to make me feel used a little bit. The only time you contact me is when you need something – and that isn't fair to me. I'm happy to continue helping you but it needs to be in the context of a friendship. If you can't call me just to see how I'm doing once in a while, then don't call me to come help". I've never heard from the girl again. Some of my friends are still in her life, and she uses them now as she once used me. Don't be Jane to God. God isn't the Staples easy button – you know the commercials – something bad is happening, but then someone pushes the easy button and all lifes problems are solved. God isn't a vending machine for solutions. God deeply desires a relationship with you – to the point where he sent his son to die for you. Don't be Jane. Christ died for you, is it too much for him to ask you to talk to him? He was scourged with a cat of 9 tales for you, is it too much to ask for you to read his love letter to you? Christ was ultimately hung on a tree by nails through his wrists and feet. Is it too much to ask you to tell others about his sacrifice?

Were running a race, a marathon. We need to throw off the sin that so easily entangles. We need to train for the marathon. But that is not the only thing that can entangle. In my study bible, I had a note on vs 1 of ch 12 written by R.C. Sproul. He said one of the things that should be thrown off is the fear that causes you to shrink back in the face of Suffering. What was Christs example? We know he wasn't thrilled by the prospect of the death he was facing. He stayed up all night praying, he sweat drops of blood. He could have ran away and didn't. He could have commanded legions of angels to protect him, and he didn't. He could have argued that the charges against him were lies (and he'd have been right), but he just let the inevitable happen so that through his death he could reconcile the lost to himself, and bring Glory to the father. God may not ask you to sit still while others kill you, but that was what he asked of his Son. Philipians – which we studied a few months ago says that Christ was obedient unto death. But it seems like many don't even follow him when things become uncomfortable. Like all of the cloud of witnesses that we have been reading about, when presented with a trial don't run and hide – instead seek God. What happened to Jonah when he ran? It wasn't much easier for those who follow Christ. Christ isn't a magic tonic – a snake oil – that will make every aspect of your life smooth. Look at the disciples. Or James – James said "Count it all joy when you encounter trials of various kinds". They tried to kill Paul several times by picking up huge rocks and smashing them into his head. Paul was shipwrecked. Snake bit, Paul had to flee for his life inside of a basket. Ultimately he was killed for his faith by the tyrannical emperor nero. But yet through it all he says its "pure joy". Christ too found joy in the Lord don't miss this in vs 2. For the joy set before him, he endured the cross. What joy? He was to be reunited with his father. He had the joy of helping others. The joy of reconciling his people with his father. When you keep Christ as the most important thing in your life, nothing else can interfere. IF Christ is the thing you spend the most time focusing on, you're not worried about whether or not your house is perfect for company, you're more concerned with telling them about Jesus. You're not worried so much with how you look (remember John the Baptist? Wore a robe of camel hair and ate locusts?) or what you eat, you're worried about nourishing your soul through reading scripture, and clothing yourself with Christlikeness. You don't have to have the latest car, instead you're supporting your church, missionaries, and other ministries that reach the Lost.

You see folks the long and short of the matter is this: The closer you are to the Lord, the more your priorities line up with his. If you're diligently seeking the Lord (in the words of the hymnist) the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. You can tell a Christian by how they live their life. A true believer in Christ is branded – just like one would be if they took a blow torch to their face. You can't truly meet Christ and be-unchanged. You can't be a follower of Christ and be unchanged. If you are still living for the world, then maybe its time to re-dedicate your heart to the Lord; or perhaps meet him for the first time. True Christians stand out in the crowd. They are the ones that come early and help set up, or stay late to help tear down. They toil over the bulletin, and the prayer list. True Christians are the ones giving you a ride when your car breaks. True Christians are the ones that grab you by the hand and pray for your concerns with you right then and there. True Christians run from sin into the arms of Christ.

Who do you identify with tonight. The athletes as they train for and participate in their various events? The races, the martial arts exhibitions, the long jumper? Or maybe if you are honest with yourself, you most identify with Jane. You do your own thing, until you can't, and then you demand help from God (or try to bargain with him). Then once you've been helped you go back to your own way of doing things essentially viewing God as a sucker who can be manipulated by you into doing the things you want, when you want. Are you Jane?

I know I can be Jane. But I want to be like Royce Gracie, or Tito, or the Olympian who jumped over 20 feet. To have the faith of Abraham and set off into the desert at the command of my Lord. The faith (and patience) of Moses who led those moody millions to the promised land. TO have the faith of Elisha, or Isaiah who had faith even when the world had him split in half, sideways from bottom to top – his faith never waivered.

Pray with me as we close.
