Isaiah was written at least a thousand years before Christ was born. We have copies of it that science has dated back to the days of the prophet Ezra some 400 years before Jesus was born. Yet the book of Isaiah prophseys more than 60 things that would be true of Jesus, and were proved true by the new testament and the witness of scripture. 

I don’t know about you but I love it when its easy to see the truth of scripture, and in this we can. We are going to be in Isa 53 today page ___________ in the large print. 

I heard a story a while back about the famous preacher from the 1800s called G. Morgan Campbell. He was a young preacher, and was passionate about his calling to the pastorate. He believed that was what God had made him for. He had been being prepared for it. 

To give you a little context about who Campbell would go on to be. He was a contemporary of a preacher in Chicago called moody. They wrote a number of books together. Campbell went on to write a number of books himself – over 80. Almost all of which are still in print, and well loved even close to a century after his death. He was a mentor for a time to a Baptist preacher over in England that some of you may have heard of called Charles spurgeon. He made a massive impact for Christ in his life and beyond. 

But today were talking about the first time he applied to the first church that was looking for a pastor. 

He submitted his resume, and they asked for his transcripts. He preached for a month. He visited the homes of the people on the pulpit committee, he hosted lunches, and question and answer times, and everything you can imagine. He was there for a month. Unpaid. Applying for this job. 

After a month, they had a vote, and almost unanimously he was rejected. 

Put your self in his shoes for a minute. He felt God had asked him to do this. He spent years in preparation, and then he preached his heart out, and put himself out there in public, and in private with all of these people in obedience to God’s call on his life, and at the end of an unpaid month, he was completely rejected. 

He went on to write a book about this time, and some others in his life on depression. I’ve read it, its excellent. Any way, after getting the news he decided to head back to his hotel, and low on funds on the way he stopped and sent a telegraph to his dad – he sent a single word “rejected”. He returned to the hotel in a dark mood. He opened his journal and wrote “Very dark everything seems. Still, He knoweth best.”

Later that night his father responded with “Rejected on earth, accepted in heaven”. 

Isn’t it great that it doesn’t really matter in the grand scheme of things what the earth thinks of us? It only matters what God thinks of us. I’m reminded of that C.T. Studd poem that says “Only one life, twill soon be past, Only what’s done for Christ will last.

Ok lets read ISA 53.
Rejection of Christ
53:1-3

They had seen Jesus, heard Jesus, and refused to trust Jesus. He like campbell would visit people, and preach his heart out. He would heal people, and free them from demons, he would feed people, he would give everything that was needed in life for these people that would ultimately reject him. Don’t forget we reject him too every time we sin. In the words of the old hymn “It was my sin that held him there until it was accomplished, his dying breath has brought me life, I know that it is finished”. This passage predicts that Christ would be rejected in three important ways. 

3 fold rejection – they rejected his words. What sorts of things did Jesus say can anyone tell me? WHats something that jesus said? 

I think some of the most controversial especially in todays open minded world was where he said “I am the way the truth and the life, NO one comes to the father except through me”. So many people today mistakenly think that “all roads lead to rome”, or that every religion ends in heaven so long as you follow it kinda sorta close. Mormons they think they are going to end up in heaven one day. Catholics think they are going to end up in heaven one day. Muslims think they are going to end up in heaven one day. All these crazy religions think they are going to end up in heaven one day, but what does the bible say? Just one way. Just through Jesus. He’s the ONLY way. They rejected that. They had a system they were used to. They didn’t want to change. It was probably scary. But what did God want from them? 
Change. 

Ultimately what did his people decide? Look at john 12:37-38, go ahead and turn, I’ll wait. 

The second thing they rejected was his work. Our passage talks about the arm of the lord. What were the things that Jesus did – he healed the sick, he made those unable to walk, able to walk again. He cast demons out, he turned water to wine, he did all these amazing things, and yet still his people rejected him. Vs 3 says he was despised. We despised him, our sin is evidence of that. The sin of his people, and their rejection is evidence of that. 

This is a reflection of the sin nature we all have in our hearts. We all have the capacity for great sin because we are all broken people. Gods still working on me, and praise him for it!

Thirdly they rejected him as a person. John 1:11 says his own people refused to receive him. 

Next were going to talk about Christ’s redemption.
Redemption of Christ :4-5
Lets read vs 4-6 once more. Pierced, crushed, you know what they are talking about here don’t you? Pierced by nails through his hands and feet. Crushed is an apt description of what Christ would have looked like by the time he got to the cross. Scourged by a cat of nine tails. Mocked. Forced to carry the cross to the top of calvary his body just couldn’t make it, and he had to have help. 

Death on the cross was a death of physical exhaustion and suffocation. Before they nailed you to the cross they would frequently splinter the back of the cross. Then you would be nailed through here, which was considered part of the hand at that time. Then they would nail your feet to the cross, one big nail through both. The way you would hang, as long as you were hanging your dangling body would put so much pressure on your lungs that you couldn’t breathe. You’d have to lift yourself up by the nails in your hand and feet so that you could take another breath. Then on the way back down the splinters would have ripped at the remaining flesh on Christs back. Eventually due to blood loss, or sheer exhaustion, you’d just finally run out of energy and be unable to lift your self up, and at that point you’d die of suffocation. 

Why should an innocent man like Christ die such an awful death for people like you and me? I hate to tell you the physical suffering was a drop in the bucket compared to the spiritual suffering. Because on the cross he bore the full weight of all of humanities sin for all times. Every lie big or small that you’ve ever told, held Christ there on that cross. Every wicked thought. Every impure motive. Every evil deed in that time came to rest upon Christ. Every single bit of crookedness, every calamities, and all the evil results of our evil deeds Christ bore on that cross. 

It kind of makes me think of the book pilgrims progress. Have you guys ever read that? I’ve suggested it a few times. Its worth reading if you haven’t. Get the “little” version by Helen Taylor. Its easy to read. To comprehend. Yet it looses none of its depth. Any way, the main guy in the story is a boy named Christian. He met an evangelist, and the evangelist pointed out he had a burden he was carrying around, and every day after that he struggled under its weight. Ultimately, he decided to be obedient to God, and followed his path to the cross. At the foot of the cross, he became a true follower of Christ, and his burden rolled away. 

On the cross Christ would have had not only the burden of Christian, but of all men that had been, were, and would be one day. All of mankinds sin for all of eternity. All of their burdens. 

It was our sin that held him there… 

The worst part I believe would have been the moment that his father turned his face away from Christ. Scripture says that he made him who knew no sin to become sin so that some might be saved. At the moment Christ became sin, God looked away. I believe that is the moment the earth quake hit Israel. It damaged the tmple, it destroyed the massive cutains that guarded the center of the temple – the holy of holies, and all sorts of things happened. It was like the earth groaned in agony. God certainly felt the seering pain of separation from his son. 

Yet all along it was within Christ’s power to pull himself out of the situation. 

Christ spoke the unierverse into existence. He surely could have commanded a legion of angels to pick him up off the cross, and destroy anyone who was involved with putting him there. He could have ended his suffering with a thought at any moment and yet we know how this part of the story ends don’t we. We know that after just a few hours Christ’s weary and torn body, his crushed and pierced body gave out. 

It would be a remarkable story if that was where it ended. But its more than remarkable, and more than just a story. This true event, the life of Christ, was so important to the world that time was changed. People no longer counted up from year to year, time was broken in half, all the years leading up to the birth of Christ, and then counting up from there. 

What other event has so captivated the world that the calender itself was broken. 

But it didn’t end with Christ’s death. Scripture says that three days later Christ rose from the dead. He had defeated sin, and death and hell and satan, and brought us freedom that only he could bring. We owed a debt we could not pay, he paid a debt he did not owe. Or as Jonathan Edwards said “the only thing we contribute to our own salvation is the sin that makes it necessary. All of the bad parts, that was us. All the good parts? Those belonged to Christ. 

I was talking to someone about WW2 the other day, and the Holocaust. He was pretty young when we fought in that war, but he had some memories. He remember articles praising hitler. He remembered nazi’s marching in times square, and hearing about Madison square gardens being filled with Nazis, and people chearing – Americans cheering for the Nazis. He remembered the horror of his family as they learned about what was happening to the jews over there. The early reports of mass graves, and exterminations. Fighting to save people who looked better than half dead. Skin stretched over bones. One person said they appeared to be the living dead. Not just men, but women and children were killed. Wontonly. They were exterminated. 

In a very similar way the soldiers who fought in world war two were a microcosm of what Christ did for us. 

Apart from Christ we are enslaved to sin. 

Without him the only thing we are capable of is evil. 

The only thing we brought to the table was weakness, and sin. 

The Jews that survived, the only thing they could do for themselves was keep breathing. Many had to be carried out. They were pushed to exhaustion. Barely living walking husks of men. Apart from Christ that’s all we can bring to the table. 

Christ’s death was necessary because apart from him we have no hope. All we like sheep have gone astray. 

With him we have hope and a future. 

Paul says it like this:” 12 Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned— 13 for sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law. 14 Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come.
15 But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man’s trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. 16 And the free gift is not like the result of that one man’s sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. 17 For if, because of one man’s trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.

Access to that life is simple. Romans 10:9
