I heard a story about a pastor that took his church to lunch one day. It was a small church, and there were 7-8 people. They naturally started talking about hobbies. Turned out he had a fisherman, a shop-a-holic, a committed hard core football fan, a foodie, a young couple so in love that their partner was their hobby, and a devoted mother of two. 

Through the course of the conversation, the pastor was surprised to hear that the fisherman who absolutely loved to fish, had decided he didn’t really like going to the lake. Why oh why do I have to go to the lake twice a week. Why can’t I just fish from my lazyboy he mused. Puzzled the pastor didn’t say anything and asked the girl who said shopping was her hobby, and asked her what stores she liked to shop at the best, and what she looked for when she was shopping. She said she really really loved to shop, but she just hated to go to the store. She hated to be there with the weirdos that didn’t even know what a good deal was, or what was popular. She hated waiting in line, handling the clothes, trying them on, she hated the smell of the stores, and spending money. 

The pastor once more was surprised, but rather than address it just yet, he turned to football fan. Thinking he would find something different there, he found out that the guy was an avid fan of the tampa bay bucs. He had the jersey, he had the bumper sticker on his car, he had the big foam number 1 hand, a hat. Even his face was painted pewter and buccaneer red, with an orange beard, and black hair. He looked like the ultimate superfan, so he asked the guy how the buccs were doing, and the guy said yeah I really don’t know. I hate watching the games on tv, and if you’ve ever been to the stadium, there are so many people. I just hate going to the games he said. 

Maybe the guy just likes the colors the pastor thought, even more confused than ever. He turned and talked to the young woman who was one half of the couple that were so in love. He knew they were preparing to be married in less than a week, so he asked them if they had figured out their living arrangements post marriage, his house? Her house? A new house? To which the young lady responded why would I want to live with him? I don’t even like going on dates with him, hes ugly, he smells bad, he has terrible taste in food, and entertainment. Id honestly rather stay home than spend any time with him. Her boyfriend agreed. If you hadn’t invited us here we would have come. Shes bossy, and demanding, shes rude, and I hate the smell of her listerine breath. I am embarrassed to be seen with her in public. The pastor said, but don’t you love each other? Aren’t you about to get married? Oh yes they said, but we will never live together. We will never go out, never date, never be seen together in public unless someone makes us. We Love each other, we just don’t want to be together. Ever. 

Puzzled, he turned first to the fisherman, how do you ever expect to catch any fish if you never go to the lake? If you hate the lake so much maybe you don’t like fishin. Same with the others, he talked to the one at a time, the shopaholic about how she hated stores, the mother about how she couldn’t stand being with her kids, the sports fan about how he hated watching the game, and finally ended with the young couple. If you can’t stand being with each other, than I don’t think you really love each other the pastor said. I can’t marry you guys next week under these circumstances, its obvious to me that this would be a loveless marriage. 

None of you guys actually love the things you claim to. None of you in fact, actually love any of the things you claim to because if you did, you’d be there for them. If you loved fishing, you’d be out fishing every chance you got. If you loved shopping, that’s what you’d be out doing. If you loved football, you’d be hard pressed to find you anywhere else if there was a game on. Lady, if you loved being a mother, you’d have brought your kids into the restaurant, instead of leaving them in their car seats in the car, and finally you two. If you really loved each other, you’d be inseparable. You cant claim to be any of these things, to love any of these things, if you’re not going to any of these things. 

But yet, sometimes, we as Christians do the same thing. How can we claim to Love God, and yet ignore his commands to go to church. Or worse, fill that time with something other than church. Other than reading our bibles, other than praying, other than sharing the gospel. How can we claim to love God, if we never share the gospel?

I heard a pastor once Preach “How unnatural for a disciple, a committed follower of Jesus who is in love with Him and who has such a relationship with Him that He is priority number one, to approach the assemblies in such a way! Must? Have to? You see, the question is wrong. The mentality and approach is where the work needs to occur.
When Jesus and His Church are my passion, the thought-process becomes “I get to,” “I want to,” and “I will!” Neither parents, grandparents, spouses, elders, preachers, siblings, nor anyone else should have to get behind to push the one who has put Jesus at the heart and center of their lives.
"Let us not neglect meeting together, as some have made a habit, but let us encourage one another, and all the more as you see the Day approaching" (Hebrews 10:25). 

With that as a backdrop, lets read our passage today in Jeremiah 7:20-end
Leading up to the verses we read today, The bible makes it clear that the people of Israel, his people, were turning aside from God to look at all sorts of false idols. One verse cites the queen of heaven as the object of their worship. Another place we read talks about how they build fires, and cast their children into them to try and worship this queen. This idol. Or baal, or ashteroth. This dead stick. Or that one. 

Today we find a lot of idols to worship. One big one is happiness. Our nation especially believes we are obligated the opportunity to persue happiness, and that is something that our country protects. But is that a thing the bible promises? I think following God ultimately leads to happiness in eternity. God can grant his followers happiness in this life too. … But is it something we are owed by God? Is he obligated to give us happiness? Is he some kind of genie in a bottle? Certainly not. God grants what he grants when he grants it according to his purposes. But what Does God Owe us? What do we deserve? So anything less than what we deserve is a wonderful gift, and this next life, free of suffering and pain is the thing we really live for right? 

So when someone makes the argument that this or that sinful thing makes them happy, is it then ok for that person to engage in the sinful thing? Is happiness or unhappiness a good enough reason to warrant rebelling against God? 

In particular we see a lot of this type of argument coming from communities that directly fight against God’s purposes in Marriage. God intended marriage to be between one man, and one woman only. No other combination. Sex outside of that configuration in God’s eyes is sinful. 

Its interesting too that this passage is speaking against a pagan idol that involved sex. The so called queen of heaven was the ancient – you know how catholics have the patron saint of this or that? Well, in the ancient near east, they had little pagan dieties for this or that also. This particular deity was the patron saint of prostitutes. You know how they worshipped this deity? Slept with prostitutes. Their hope was to awaken both her and baal, and that together they would bring rain. To get Baals attention, they would the text says pass their children through the fire, or literally, burn their children to death, possibly while alive, in the fire. It was desicipable, and a practice that ultimately lead to the downfall of the northern ten tribes. Ten full tribes were lost, and scattered by their enemies at the hands of God. 

God takes worship seriously. Our enemy takes old sins and gives them a new twist. It may not be sex with temple prostitutes that our country has embraced, and it may not be worshipping a piece of wood specifically as in the old days, but the end result is much the same. We worship our happiness, and at the cost of rebelling against God in sexual things. 

I heard an argument this week from a woman who was open about being a lesbian, who said God wouldn’t make a rule that would prevent someone from being happy. 

There are liars that get a rush of happiness from lying, or stealing. There are murderers that are made happy by killing. Her argument could have been extended to any of those things. Yet God clearly and repeatedly makes a point of saying it is wrong to casually take the life of an image bearer, that its wrong to lie, its wrong to steal. It is wrong to do the things God commands us not to do. Even if those things make us think we are happy. Because it’s a fleeting passing happiness that doesn’t and cant last. That won’t last, and will lead to our ruin. 

I had another person say such thinking is legalistic. I think I want to spend the rest of our time talking about legalism. 

The law is used in basically three ways in the church today. Firstly, and biblically the law is intended to show us just how far short we fall of God’s standard which will naturally point us toward the gospel. 

Just in case anyone was confused, we all fallshort in that regard. We all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God scripture says. The law helps us see all the ways we have done so. 

Secondly the law helps us see a bit of the beauty of the gospel. Because of the law, we see how short we fall, because of the law and the gospel we see how much we have been forgiven. Its hard to have a full picture of why Jesus had to die for our sins, without having an understanding of the law. 

Thirdly, people use the law to stress the need for obedience to God. This third use is where one can brush up against legalism. I knew a lady that watched a legalist preacher on tv, and she was absolutely 100% convinced that God had commanded everyone across all ages not to eat pork. I happen to know she’d still sneak bacon once in a while, but I digress. Trying to take the old testament dietary laws, and forcing them on other people in contradiction to new testament scripture is one form of legalism. 

We can’t talk about legalism without touching on the opposite of legalism. Want a 10$ word? Its called Anti-nomianism. In the latin when Martin Luther penned this term, it came from two latin words, anti, for against, and nomos for the law. These people argue that because God died for our sins, and as Christians we are forgiven of every sin past present and future, and because God knew all the sins we’d commit before he ever chose to save us, then it must be ok for us to sin wildly and wantonly. The sex and drugs life are embraced by such people. 

In fact there was a man who called himself a “prophet” and “preached” a false revival in landolakes a number of years back who holds to an insidious version of this where it was ok with him to press young women and men into having sex with him as his reward for and I quote “obediently serving god”. Eg he deserved happiness, he thought. He was married, but that apparently didn’t mean anything to him. So in his sinfulness he slept with I think a dozen women at least one of whom was underaged, and a handful of boys. None of whom were his wife. But he was ok with it, because of antinomianism. 

So were left with on one hand – plenty of passages in the Old and New testaments that say if you love me, you will keep my commands. Basically to Keep the law. And on the other hand we have books like galatians that teach freedom from the Law. Naturally both positions lead to their own extremist position, firstly that every old testament law must be kept perfectly or you’ll go to hell, and secondly that no piece of the law applies any longer because of the death of Christ. 

Which leaves you and I sort of stuck in the middle between two extremes. Lets try and navigate that. 

The old testament has basically three kinds of laws. Ceremonial law – things like if you touch a dead body, you have to go outside the camp, and go through these rituals of purification for a week in order to be clean once more. Bearing in mind when this law was given, there was no understanding of microorganisms. No one had seen what the bacteria or viruses that make us sick looked like, or how to deal with them. So God gave laws that helped protect his people. Do or don’t do this or that. The ceremonial law is no longer something we are held to. Touch a dead body? Gross, go wash your hands. No longer do you need to hide out in a tent for a week to see if you are going to die too. 

Second is the dietary law. Much of this was for our protection too. Eat raw pork and maybe die. Eat an undercooked chicken, and you’ll be in a world of hurt. These two categories of law existed to help protect us in our naivete. In the new testament, we see peter being told to take unclean meat, and meat offered to idols, and eat it. These rules that were pragmatic and protective were stepped away from, even as far back as the new testament. 

Thirdly we have the moral law. Don’t kill. Don’t rape. Don’t have sex outside of marriage. Don’t get drunk. These kinds of laws these moral laws still apply in so far as they are a dipstick, a measuring tool of a sort so we can see where we are with God.  As a Christian, as you mature in christ, you’ll become aware of things in your life that need to change. God brings thigns to your attention that you’re doing wrong. He does this not because he hates you, or even out of anger. Its just to show us a better way. In as much as the dietary and ceremonial laws were designed to protect us, so is the moral law. Work for what you need, don’t steal it. Treat people with integrity, and if anything happens, and you are accused of something people will see your integrity and know the worth of the claims against you. Drugs and being drunk kind of go without saying. Those of you who have been cheated on have felt the tearing that one of the forms of sex outside of marriage can have. All of these things do damage to you on the inside. Or shortcircuit your relationship with God. Instead of finding our peace, and joy, and security, and happiness in God, we try to find them in other places, and other ways that are damaging to us. These laws God still expects us to follow. 

1 corinthians 6:18-20 says Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.

Same book, next chapter says “Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: “It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.” But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.”

Relatedly, in the context of sex outside of marriage; You’ve heard that lady gaga song about being born this way, science has proved that’s nonsense decades ago. But no one talks about that. 

A huge study followed something like 10,000 kids from childhood into adulthood. Scanning their brains along the way. They found that only AFTER people began to engage in homosexual activity did they see a change in peoples brains. Our brains rewire themselves to pursue happy things and avoid painful things. Once we have made the choice to engage in sinful behavior, our brains can rewire themselves to persue those same sinful things even harder. We see that in hard drugs. We see it in cycles of abuse, in abusive relationships. The victim always thinks its their fault, and they try hard to avoid raising the ire of the abuser, rather than breaking things off with the abuser. The abuser uses this principle unwittingly to help program their victims brain to live and die on the abusers opinion of them. 

Yet the psychology community says “born that way”. All of that came about because of a grou[ of psychologists in california, each either gay, or the parent of a child that identified that way deciding as a group that it was so. Not exactly an impartial group. 

I don’t think God would make someone that way, but even if someone was born that way. We are never promised happiness through sex, through relationship with men or women. We are only promised happiness in the context of relationship with God. I liked what the preacher Ray Comfort said “Just because someone struggles with same sex attraction, doesn’t mean God made him gay, any more than God made a person with anger problems a murderer. You have a choice about what to do with any kind of temptation. “

I heard a preacher preach while I was in the UK serving there as a missionary, he was an Anglican vicar. He was asked to give his testimony in the middle of a service I was attending. This particular church had a passion for reaching a specific people group that I was there to work with, and so even though I am a long way from being an Anglican, I visited them a few times across my time in London. Any way, he got up and started sharing his testimony about how he was attracted to other men, and before he was a Christian he didn’t care, and he did what heathens do. Like that t-shirt says heathens gonna heath. But one day God got ahold of his heart and began drawing this man to himself. He heard someone preach one day and he knew he needed God’s forgiveness. So he prayed, and began trying to live for God. He broke up with the man he had been with, and began reading his bible. He began praying, and going to church everytime the doors were open. He fell in love with his savior. Ultimately going to seminary and becoming a vicar at the Anglican church. He said he still struggles with same sex attraction. But that he has submitted his will to God’s, and he knows that its not God’s will for him to act on those kinds of things. So even though hes a Christians, and an Anglican version of an assistant pastor of sorts, hes still not perfect. People who become addicted to doing a thing especially sexual things sometimes are fully healed by God, and sometimes are left to struggle with the scars of their sins. He was in that second category, and he fought hard against the sin in his heart. He said God saved me from an eternity in Hell, and if he asks me then to submit my desires to his will, then being obedient to God is important enough to me, that I will die to myself, and live for Christ. Even if it means being single and celibate for the rest of his days on earth. 

The people in our passage today, they chose to be disobedient to God. They chose to burn their children alive. They chose to have sex outside of God’s plan for marriage. The end result was their pain, and ruin. They are so far gone in their idolatry, and disobedience that God says not to even pray for them any more. Like a parent that’s finally had enough. Ever push your mom to the point she had enough? 

Now contrast all of that, about the northern tribes of Israel, the vicar, and with the sports fan from earlier. The sports fan sure looked the part all painted up, but did he really love football if he refused to watch or go to the games? If he refused to play it himself? How much we can all learn from this imperfect preacher whose first love is Jesus Christ. Everything else, his own happiness, his own aspirations are second to his savior Jesus. Yet so often we treat Jesus like that young woman does the one she claims to love. Its easy to say I’m tired, or having strong feelings, or just too busy to go to church. But what does it say about our love for God, if we make church, if we make time with him in prayer, in scripture, in sharing the gospel, in worship,  a chore, or an option of last resort? At that point do we really love God? Or perhaps we’ve just forgotten our first love. 

The solution to both of those problems is the gospel.
