John 12
Three people and one dirty dog.
Grace. Killing chickens, gorged herself sick, vomited all over the place.

First is Judas – this was written with the clarity of hindsight. John comments in vs 5ff that Judas would later betray Jesus, that Judas was a theif, that judas didn't care about the poor – only lining his own pockets. These are pretty harsh accusations. Researched Judas.

Two texts written over a thousand years after Judas lived. Not scripture. Not supported by any other texts. Generally only considered by Egyptian orthodox to be of any value.

They claim judas murdered his father, married his mother. She died, he followed John the Baptist, and became angry with Christ after he didn't call a host of angels down to save John the Baptist.

We don't know the truth, scripture is the only source of absolute truth and it is quiet on the matter.

Whatever he did before Christ, his most enduring contribution to scripture are his actions regarding Christ.

My dog became sick - Prov 26:11 As a dog returns to its vomit so fools repeat their folly. She wouldn't "return" to her vomit. But I think Judas may have been.

We can guess that he probably worked with money. Its logical to let someone with financial experience handle the purse.

May have been a tax collector. They were reviled. Ripped off the jews. Many seen as collaborators. Whatever his profession, he seems to be pretty comfortable ripping people off.

3 Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, one of the Twelve. 4 And Judas went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and discussed with them how he might betray Jesus.

What do we know about demonic possession? Christians cannot be possessed.

Judas may have repented, may not have. We don't really know. We know that he felt bad, but that is different than becoming a believer in Jesus Christ. Feeling bad about the bad things you do doesn't make you saved. A relationship with Jesus – putting your faith, hope and trust in Jesus is what makes you saved. Confessing the Lord Jesus Christ with your mouth, and believing that God raised him from the dead in your heart makes you saved.

Are you like Judas? He attended church every day for years just like the rest of the disciples. Yet he wasn't there for the right reasons. He had another angle, and was stealing from the church in the name of helping the poor.

He went to church, he hung out with Jesus, and in the end he didn't really understand, and didn't believe.

Some people still today will go to church for their entire lives, and not really know Jesus. They may know jesus in their head, but not their hearts and so miss heaven by 18 inches.

Scripture says even the demons have head knowledge about Jesus, and they tremble. (James 2:19)

Are you like Judas? Are you here for some other angle? Do you have knowledge about Jesus without knowing him?

First we looked at Judas, now let's look at our second person, Mary.

Mary – possibly the sister of Lazarus – anointed Christ's feet with oil.

Not just any oil, an expensive one from Egypt. It cost a years wages, adjusted for inflation today the oil would have cost around 80,000$.

Feet back then were not as well cared for as feet today. Dirty, no socks, lots of dead skin. Toenail funk, cracked, split, ugly dirty feet.

Scripture says beautiful are the feet that carry the good news of the gospel of peace. (Isaiah 52:7 / Romans 10:15) I wonder if that passage was going through Mary's mind when she anointed his feet? She used her hair, hair was significant in Hebrew culture as it was synonymous with beauty. Long hair in women, especially long curly hair was prized in a wife. The washing of Jesus feet would have made her hair an awful mess. We are not aware of soaps and things to readily clean the oil, and caked on dirt out of her once she was done. So then she gave probably all of her money, and gave her beauty as a thank you to Jesus. It probably represented the sum total of everything she had to give.

I think when Lazarus walked out of the grave, she was thankful to have her brother back yes, but in that moment she was overwhelmed with the reality of who Christ was! In that moment it became real to her, and so she wished to worship him with everything she had.

What a beautiful picture of a person becoming truly saved.

Its like the Third Day song says – are you familiar with Third Day? They have a song called Offering, and the jist of it is that we have been given so much more than we deserve, and so what should our response be? The song says

"Magnificent Holy Father
I stand in awe of all I see
Of all the things You have created
But still You choose to think of me

And who am I that You should suffer
Your very life to set me free

The only thing that I can give You
Is the life You gave to me

I stand before You at this altar
So many have given You more

I may not have much I can offer
Yet what I have is truly Yours

This is my offering, dear Lord
This is my offering to You, God
And I will give You my life
For it's all I have to give
Because You gave Your life for me"

Our response should be worship and surrender. Mary overcome with the realness of God become flesh gave everything she had in worship of Christ.

Like Mary, Jesus gave it all. The old hymn says "Jesus paid it all, all to Him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow." (Jesus Paid It All – Elvina Hall, 1865)

We were like Jesus feet. Dirty, cracked, stinky old sinners. We did not deserve the gift of salvation, but Christ offered and offers it to us any way. He bent down, and washed us clean. He gave his life to do so for each and every one of us.

I think there comes a point in everyone's life where they come face to face with God.

Some people like Mary respond by giving what they have to the Lord. She was able to do this in person. As a result some people – in awe – tell their friends and loved ones about Christ. Some like the disciples, or Paul, go into the ministry, or missions, or however else the Lord asks them to serve. All of the people we've just described have one thing in common whether they become a pastor, or missionary or serve the Lord at their job, and through their families. All of them saw the Lord and responded by living for the Lord.

Some people however are more like my dog, or like Judas. They saw Jesus, and saw him as a cash cow, and then returned to their vomit. They saw God and figured out a way to profit from his presence. Instead of sincerely following Christ, he faked it. He fleeced the flock. Took what he could get, and sold Christ out for a little more. Whatever his reasoning – those were his actions. Maybe you are here today, and you've never come to a point where you've decided to become a Christian. Maybe you've been coming to church for a while – maybe your whole life. But you've never entered into a relationship with him. Judas walked with Christ for years also. Yet the devil was able to enter into him, as he was not a believer in Jesus Christ. As you sit here, in a minute, while dad is singing, ask yourself, are you sure? Are you very sure? Are you like Judas? Faking it? If so you need to have a little talk with Jesus. Forgiveness is just a prayer away! You can never do anything so bad that Christ won't forgive you. If Judas repented before he hung himself, we will see him in heaven one day.

Christians, are you like Mary? Are we so overcome with the reality of our salvation that we are willing to give everything we have, and who we are in service of him? He won't ask most of us to go live as a missionary in a hostile country, or to literally give our lives in service to the Lord. But he did ask all of us to go make disciples, are we doing that? Are we living a life that reflects Christ every moment of every day? My prayer for the believers in the room is that we would be more like Mary. More like Philip. More like Paul. That we would live our lives like Christ and for Christ regardless of the personal consequences. That those who meet us would say "wow there is something different about that one – I need what they have".
