Joshua 24
This passage really struck me this week as speaking to the heart of where America is right now. God has deeply blessed as a nation – I think we can all agree on that! I found a website that shows how an individuals income compares to the incomes of the rest of the world. As a for instance the average person on Social Security income makes between 700 and 1200$ a month, or about 8400-14000$ a year. I picked a spot in the middle – 10000$ and put it into the website. How do you think a person on disability in America stacks up against the rest of the world? Any guesses? Do you think they are in the poorest 10%? 30%? 40? 50? Where do you think they are? Would you believe the poorest in America are in the top 10% richest people in the world? 

An American receiving disability makes 45x the average salary of a doctor in Kyrgyzstan. I think that’s a blessing! A doctor that’s given their life for schooling, that has gotten their phd, only makes 1/45th of what we give out in our country to those that cant work. That should blow our minds. It blew my mind. We are a blessed nation. 

We are blessed in other ways, we have been blessed to have nearly two decades of relative peace in our homeland. I mean think about Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, or even mexico. All of these countries are on the top ten lists for most war damage in the last twenty years. Mexico is currently at war. Not just the occasional terrorist attack these countries have places were things are actively being bombed on a daily basis. We have to check traffic reports on our way to work, could you imagine having to check a bombing report? Active warfare report? Praise God for our country. Whenever we have had wars, for the most part we have been successful, we have helped to save the world at least twice and without harm coming to our homeland. Praise God for it!

We complain about gas prices. But I read a report out of Haiti where the most recent tax increases bring gas prices up again for Haitians. The average Haitian has to pay two and a half full days wages in order to buy a single gallon of gas. Its something approaching triple the cost we pay per gallon there. Could you imagine having to pay nearly three days wages for a single gallon of gas? I live practically across the street, and would use more gas in a given week than I’d make. Oil, and gas, and food are so abundant in our country. 

A missionary friend to china once said that America is one of the few countries in the world that is wealthy enough to not consider bugs a source of food. Its so prevalent there is even a word for it now – entomophagy. 80% of the worlds population will intentionally eat a bug today. We have a single county in California that out produces the next 9 of the top ten whole countries in terms of agricultural products. That one county produces 13% of the entire worlds food, and that doesn’t even take into account the corn belt, the wheat belt, and all of the highly fertile farmland of the mid west, south, and north in our country. One tiny county. 13% of the WORLDS food. As a nation we throw away on average about 200lbs per person per year. some 60 billion tons of food each year. Or roughly equivalent of 1/3 of the worlds total production of food we throw in the garbage. The total value of food thrown away each year is estimated to be around 3 trillion dollars. We are blessed to be able to turn our nose up at bruised bananas, or wilted lettuce. If you lived outside of our country, and had an orange with mold on it, you’d cut the mold off and be happy with your valuable treasure. Here we get an orange that’s a little moldy, and into the trash can it goes. 

We are so blessed!
That’s not even looking at the religious liberties we all enjoy! Kurt has a shirt that says “this shirt is illegal in 53 countries – and on the back is has a verse from Romans – I am not ashamed of the gospel for it is the power of God unto salvation. 50 countries where access to the bible is against the law to possess, its restricted in 40 countries, and there are 13 areas within countries where the bible is banned as well. We are incredibly blessed to have more than one copy in our own language. 

I don’t think I have to convince anyone that we are indeed a blessed nation.

The Israelites were blessed too, remember as they left Egypt they were given parting gifts. Gold, and silver, and animals. This was back when wealth was largely counted in animals. There are places like that still today – a friend of mine in Africa was a single man, a missionary, and fathers would frequently come up to him and try to bargain their daughters away to him for sheep, or cows, or pigs, or bags of grain. He said some of the missionaries he trained would buy a couple bags of grain, and travel to the poorest town the missionary could find, and for his two bags of grain he could have his pick of the village girls for his wife. Women aren’t you glad we don’t operate that way in America? 

Not only that but they have been seeing God’s hand at work, they were blessed with food – mana – daily. They never had to worry where their next meal was coming from. They were blessed with security. So long as they were following the Lord, they were victorious in battle everywhere they went. No one tried to attack them. They were so in awe of the nation, and feared God too much to risk that kind of thing. 

They had been slaves within the previous generation don’t forget. They had been captive in Egypt, forced to work hard, whipped, and abused for their free labor. But God had set them free! The current generation had grown up not knowing the feel of whips cracking on their back! Of forced labor. They didn’t know what it was to belong as property to another human being. 

They were blessed! Read with me starting in vs 6 the whole first part of the chapter is recounting blessings god had given – plenty of offspring, direct guidance, and so forth. God is demonstrating how he has kept his word in the Abrahamic covenant, and how really, he’s gone above and beyond what he promised. Ok lets read (thru 15).
Its almost as though God is saying I’ve been faithful to you over and over and over and over and over. Will you be faithful to me? 

How did the Israelites respond to God’s actions over and over and over? By repeatedly turning away, and doubting God, and complaining. Remember, in Egypt even while God’s man was amoung them working towards their freedom and blessing, they said God’s clearly forgotten about us! Then God moves in a series of miraculous ways that results not only in their freedom, but in the Egyptians basically paying them to leave. But right after that what happens? They see Egypt chasing them with the whole army, and what happens? Oh Moses, you’ve brought us out to be killed. God once again saved the whole group of doubters in a miraculous way that resulted in the defeat of pharaohs army. They realize they won’t have enough food and water to last for 2m people, so rather than ask God for help, they whine and doubt some more. God why would you bring us out of slavery only to kill us by starvation and thirst. So God gives them water from a rock, and manna from heaven. But that’s not good enough, They start whining about how the food choices were better in Egypt, and how the whips were not too bad because they at least had meat. So God sends another miracle and provides meat. So they finally get to the promised land, and they send in a couple spies. Most of them come back afraid the God that caused their slave masters to pay them to leave, the God that made water come out of a rock, the God that makes food fall from the sky, the God that single handedly defeated the worlds super power at the time couldn’t defeat the people in the promised land. That made God a little angry, and so he decides to wait till these peoples kids are in charge and sort of start over with them. So they wandered for 40 years never wanting for food or water, never being attacked, never having their clothes wear out, never having foot problems, with the old and the young able to miraculously keep pace, and still we had Achan last week keeping devoted items in his tent. Items devoted to the utterly powerless piece of wood that the caananites used in their perverse rituals. God punished Achann, and they went on to conquer nearly all of the promised land by this point in Joshuas life. Individual families were certainly blessed. In all the conquering and fighting that goes on subsequently there are precious few issues. You don’t read about any of the normal things that happen in war fare. People losing arms, or legs, or heads. All you hear about are victorys because God is leading them, and orchestrating things supernaturally. In fact there are still a few battles that take place after Joshuas death, but 99% of the fighting is done now. Most of the battles were done in such a way as to prove the worthless sticks the caananites worshiped were indeed worthless sticks. Like the battle of Jericho, when Baal was supposed to be at his strongest, God has Joshua mock elements of their fertility festival, and then utterly destroy all the followers of baal, and all their idols. If Baal were real, wouldn’t he have had something to say about that? But being a stick of wood, he remained silent as expected. Then all these other followers of baal have their cities over run with followers of the one True God. Proving over and over and over and over and over and over and over to the Israelites and any in the surrounding countryside that baal was a useless stick. Yet still, things come to a point where God has to have this discussion with them. He says basically are you going to worship that dead stick, who is powerless, who we’ve seen defeated and destroyed over and over and over, or are you going to worship me. God says choose this day who you will serve. 

God has done the same thing in our lives has he not? How many times has he moved in your life, despite your unfaithfulness for your benefit? How many times has he blessed you? We talked about all the ways we are blessed just by living in America. No one is going to arrest you for owning a bible, no one is going to shoot you for being a Christian, no one is going to lock you up, and rape your wife for being a Christian, these things happen every day around the world. Not to mention, he’s put even our poorest in the top few percent of wealthy people around the world. He’s blessed us with food to eat, with a car to drive, with gas we can afford, with so much food the average family throws out on average a couple hundred pounds. 

In our individual personal lives we have seen God move in other ways haven’t we? My mom was healed of arthritis. She had rheumatoid arthritis, which is a crippling disease. If you look at her hands you can see the unnatural curves it caused her in her fingers. But one day she was at church, and Pastor Bob said if you need prayer come on up, and God healed her. The next time she went in for her routine arthritis check, they told her they could see the damage left behind, but that her blood work no longer indicated that she had arthritis. I could mention Irma, but I do all the time. God has blessed each of us in other ways too hasn’t he? Bob’s kids are an example of that. Rob wouldn’t still be alive without God’s direct intervention. Plus look at the ways he’s looked after Julie, and the kids in New York. God has blessed him through his kids. 

Plus God has blessed us by freeing us from our slave masters has he not? I know some of you were addicted to things, and God has freed you from that. We have two guys for whom alcohol came to taste like lighter fluid to them. Still others have been freed from dependence upon drugs legal and otherwise. 

He has freed us, he has taken care of us, and kept us from starving to death. Amen? 

Yet like so many of us there are idols in the camp. I like to think we are better than the average church, that we have largely set those aside, and are all whole heartedly following God. But yet how many – and you don’t need to raise your hands – but how many read your bible every day this week? How many of you pray like you ought? Live life like you ought. How many of you are a reflection of Christ in every sphere of your life?

By show of hands, how many people have a tv show that they like to watch regularly? Ok put your hands down, and don’t raise them for this next one, but how many of you managed to watch your tv program, but hadn’t spent any time in your bible, or praying that day? What does that say about your priorities? Its an easy trap to fall into. But what does it say about your priorities that you make sure you make time for your tv show, but not for your savior? There are other Idols we could get into. Status, wealth, relationships, substances, people, stuff, cars, whatever – the possibilities are endless. 

But compared to God they are no better than a powerless dead stick. 

So as we close, maybe you’ve been away chasing after dead sticks, and you realize its time to come back and put your focus on the things that matter. Or maybe you’ve never truly been a believer in Jesus. The bible says I am THE way, THE truth, and THE life, NO ONE comes to the father, but through Christ Jesus. 

Today is the day to turn back to Christ, or to turn to Christ for the very first time. 

Gospel
