An Unlikely Hero
We've probably all heard about Joshua and the battle at Jericho. But how much have we ever heard about Rahab. We know she saved the spies, and that she was a prostitute. But there are some other pieces of information that you should know about this woman. It is unclear whether she was a temple prostitute, or the more secular kind. But we do know that the people of Jericho worshipped ba'al and his consort ashurah. As part of worshipping these God's they would have sex with a temple prostitute, because they believed that when ashurah and baal would have "relations" their fields would receive life giving rain. So visiting these prostitutes would hopefully entice baal into making rain. The first century historian Josephus who lived many centuries later said by night rahab ran an inn for travelers. Inns of old, like british public houses (or pubs) served beer, and functioned as the local bar. It is likely that this was how the spies came to know Rahab.
We aren't told how old she is; but we do know she still lives with her father, and so in a society that marries their daughters off at young ages, it is likely that she is a young teenager perhaps 13-16.

Can you imagine pressing your daughter into service at the temple as a prostitute by day, and before and after work having her help run your public house? This little girl, this teenager was even named in such a way as to indicate she would be a prostitute. Her name in the vernacular of the day meant "large uterous" – a name scholars say indicated she would be a prostitute. But being a prostitute wasn't the only thing we remember her for.

Who remembers the name Boaz? Tell me about Boaz. That's right Boaz married Ruth, there is a whole book in your bible about Boaz and Ruth. Boaz is Rahab's son. Fast forward a few generations, and her great great grandson is named Jessie. He had a son you may Remember who was named David. Fast forward a bunch more great's and you get to her most notable offspring – Jesus.
So what made this girl special? I'm not going to have you turn there, but if you want to mark in your notes that ch 2 is an important chapter about Rahab. It talks about how her fathers house, this inn, was built into the wall of the city. It talks about the agreement she made with Joshuas spies, and most importantly she shares a piece of her heart with the spies when she tells them the condition of the city. She says I know your God, and I know he has been victories over all the people you've faced thus far. All the courage has left the men of the city, and men are leaving the city because of you. They knew the horrible reality of Gods judgement and wrath. (explain)

She said your God is the God of the heavens above and the earth Below. Basically she professed faith in God, and stepped away from Baal. She knew Baal was a big piece of wood. She knew that the Israelite God was real and this little girls great faith in that moment saved her.

I think Rahab had been dealt kind of a rough hand in life. Have you ever felt that way? I think we all have been through hard times, and know what that feels like. Maybe we've never been forced into prostitution, but we've all had hard times. It is our faith that gets us through those hard times. When things are rough, look to Jesus. Remember Peter when he walked on the water? The storm was rolling in around him, maybe lighting cracking and thunder booming. But so long as he focused on Christ he was able to walk on the water. Its like that for us too. Compared to the suffering of Christ, who of us has really suffered? Compared to what we deserve, who of us has really suffered? I read a quote by David Platt this week that said "The martyrs knew that the fires they endured were nothing like the fires they deserved.". Rahab knew the trials she endured would be nothing compared to what was about to happen to her if she didn't step up and commit to the God of Israel. So she honored their arrangement, protected the spies, and hung a red cord outside of her window.
An Unlikely Victory
Most of us should remember the name Joshua too. He was one of the 12 spies that moses sent into the promised land, more specifically he was one of the two that came back saying God was big enough to conquer their enemies. He served as Moses aid, and God appointed him to be Moses replacement. Many people think he was probably born in Egypt not too long before God used moses to free the Israelite. He would have been a kid that grew up in front of everyone that went on to be their leader. It would kind of be like Konner, or Wyley years from now, becoming our leader. We've watched them grow up, we have seen them at their best, and worst. We know where they are strong, and we know their weaknesses. It would have been kind of like that for Joshua. He was KNOWN by the people, for better or worse; and for that reason they may have had a hard time taking him serious as their leader at first. We won't turn there, but In Joshua 3, God approaches Joshua and says hey – we need to exalt you in front of the nation, we need to establish your authority and so were going to do something big; and the plan is hatched to take Jericho. As mentioned before spies were sent in, Rahab protected them, and then God gave Joshua kind of an audacious plan. He told them to march around the city every day for a week, and on the 7th day do it 7 times and then blow the trumpets. Now think about the size of the walls for a minute. Rahab's fathers home was embedded in the wall. Josephus says it was an inn – a public house that would have served food and alcohol. So it likely had some size to it. It likely had a few rooms, a kichen, a dining room, and the families quarters. It might have been on par with some of our homes. I kind of picture – any of you ever been through cincinatti? They have these narrow kind of tall, close together homes. Each floor may only be 200 sq ft, but each building has 5 floors. I kind of picture the housing situation to be something like that. Needless to say the walls would have had to have been huge! Have you ever been to a fort? Or an old castle that still had its walls? I had the priveledge to see a few of them in Europe, and here in America as well. In fact in England I saw a section of a roman wall that would have originally stretched on for hundreds of miles, and likely would have had an aquaduct inside (they think). The top of the wall, was easily wider than this room, and if you count up from the footers, it would have originally been about 20 feet tall. Likewise the walls of Jericho were pretty big too. Archeologists belive they have found the old city, including part of the wall – must be Rahabs part. The wall was as high as 17 feet above ground, and as deep as 9 feet below ground for a total of 26 feet tall, by just about as wide – aproxam
ently 27 feet wide. It was taller and wider where they had defensive towers. These same scientists estimate that there would have been room for about 2-3000 people in the wall, and that the city might have contained as many as 3 or 5000 more. I say all that because some people think the weight of the residents of the city could have caused the walls to collapse. But I don't think so, these walls had berms built against them from the outside to protect against flooding. I think its more likely a direct act of God.



The Israelites were kind of complainers any way, and I'm sure there was some of that going on. Why do we have to walk in circles Joshua? Moses would have hit the wall with his stick, and we'd have lunch and they would all die. Why can't you be like moses Joshua. But Joshua obeyed God, and on the seventh day the last time they marched around Jericho the walls crashed down – except for the part Rahab was in. That must have been quite a sight. A huge wall, a mile or so in length reduced to rubble except for the house of the one Caananite that believed God and helped the Israelites.

The main thing though is that you have a relationship with Christ. That is where it all starts. We serve a big God, a good God, a loving, and gracious God who is also fully just. Vs 17 says Jericho was devoted to the Lord for destruction. As mentioned earlier we serve a big and powerful God. His wrath is a terrible thing. If everything Good stems from God, and everything evil stems from his absence, what do you think Hell will be like? Hell has been described as the perfect absence of God. Scripture calls it a place of fire, a place where you will be being eaten by worms and always eating but never full, the worms never die. My theology prof said that Hell is a kindness to those who don't believe. He belelievs that people who spend their life living in such a way to deny his existence would be more miserable spending eternity in the presence of the God they hate, than in his absence. All I know is hell is hot, heaven is sweet, and eternity is long.

Maybe you are here tonight, and you can identify with Rahab. You've had a tough life, but you believe God is real and you're ready to take the next steps – maybe you've never accepted Jesus as your Lord and savior. Maybe you've never been baptized. Maybe you're ready to join the church. If so come talk to me.

Maybe you're more like Joshua and you feel like God has asked you to do something. Maybe to share the gospel with someone? But you're not quite sure how. Come talk to me. I'd love to help you be able to do that.
The main thing though is that you have a relationship with Christ. That is where it all starts. We serve a big God, a good God, a loving, and gracious God who is also fully just. Vs 17 says Jericho was devoted to the Lord for destruction.
