The Power of God.
So just to review, Just under Joshua the Israelites have seen the huge walls of Jericho fall down, All except for Rahabs family who lived in the wall. Everyone else was killed. The Israelites didn't even have a hangnail. Then over confident they are routed in AI losing 37 people. That was when they discoved the treachery of Achan. So they dealt with him, saught the Lord routed AI, and then spent a day or two reading scripture aloud to each other. They needed to push the big spiritual reset button and get their relationship with the Lord sorted out. After that they encounter the gibeonites along the road. The gibeonites have set out to deceive the Israelites. Being the Israelites when they encountered the Gibeonites they forgot to pray and seek the Lords will. The Gibeonites make quite a production out of their deception and do what the walls of Jericho, and soldiers of AI failed to do. They ended up becoming the ally of the Gibeonites.
That pretty much brings us back to our scripture this week. We read last week where Israels enemies were already forming alliances against her. This week we learn their identity. There are five kings in total, each responsible for a nation state. Scripture calls these men amorites, but they are also Caananites, and who do the canaanites worship? Baal. God makes a promise in vs 8, I want you to notice this because it means two things. For one thing it means that they have asked the Lord for guidance and he has responded. This is in contrast to what happened in AI, and with the gibeonites, this time they are all prayed up. Prayer is one of the most important things you can do. John Bunyan who you may know of as the author of pilgrims progress wrote this of prayer "You can do more than pray after you've prayed, but you cannot do more than pray until you have prayed." Prayer is a properly basic first step. Going through life without prayer is like going into battle without armor. This time they go in prepared.


So here is the situation they find themselves in. Remember the Gibeonites from the other night? Well the alliance from the first part of ch 9, mentioned again early in ch 10 is at the gates of Gibeon. I imagine they had to sneak a runner out over the wall to get the message to Joshua. Joshua gets the message but must abide by the terms of his agreement. Think about that for a second though. The Gibeonites were the enemy, they are a people God wanted the Israelites to defeat; and now because of their lack of prayer earlier, now they have to go fight this large confederation of forces to protect said enemy. To protect the people that lied to them. They have to risk their own necks for people that sacrifice children. They have to potential shed their own blood for a people that certainly don't deserve it. Doesn't that sound like something we've heard before! And praise God for it! Because you and I were no better than the Gibeonites. We've lied, cheated, stolen, some of us have done other things. Some of us were alcoholics or drug addicts. Some of us have traveled down some dark roads, but God loves us too much to leave us there! amen?

So first talk to God, be in fellowship with God, read your bible, pray, know God and know his will on things. So that when the hard questions of life come up you can ask God and get an answer. Being a Christian in a lot of ways is like being a piece of metal stuck to a magnet. Have you ever used a magnet to turn a piece of metal into a magnet? Well as it happens the longer that piece of metal is stuck to that magnet, the more powerful the magnet, the better magnet, and the longer that piece of metal will be magnetized. God is the perfect magnet, the strongest magnet, but for our part, how much time we spend with Him determines our effectiveness and usefulness. If you aren't a Christian you may as well be aluminum resting on a magnet, because your current nature prevents you from having fellowship with God. The first step is asking God to change that nature. Scripture says 2 cor 5:17 17 Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.[a] The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.
One of my professors used to say that "a fishy and a fishy have a fish nature, and when they have a baby it has a fish nature. A horsey and a horsey have a baby it's a little horsey and it has a horse nature. When sinful humans with a sin nature have a baby it too has a sin nature. That nature must be changed, that metal must be changed – and there is only one man that can do it for you, and that is Jesus Christ!

So what does it mean to be a Christian.

Becoming a Christian isn't something that happens on its own. It doesn't happen as a result of coming to church, or helping out. It starts with God working in your heart to call you, the Holy Spirit scripture says has to do a work in you before you are even capable of being interested in the things of the Lord. That work leads to you placing your faith in Christ and repentance. At that moment – the moment you put your faith in Christ and Repent, you are justified. That is your debt is paid. If you were a criminal in a court, and the judge sentenced you to jail when you get out of jail the judge might say you've paid your debt to society. The same is true when you become a Christian. When you put your faith in Christ and repent, he pays your debt. Once your debt is paid, God adopts you as his son or daughter, and you increase in sanctification from that point forward so long as you are following Christ, spending time in his word, living in fellowship with other believers, worshiping God. If you are doing all those things then you will also be living a lifestyle of evangelism. As Baptist we believe the next step is perseverance which means that once you have been justified, once you have placed faith in Christ, and repented of your sin, once those things have happened you are saved, and that salvation perseveres. Its kind of like getting a face tattoo. I saw someone last week with a tattoo of the budwiser logo on her face. There are many things people do these days to get rid of tattoos but none of them really work. They have lasers, or creams, or dermabrasion, but pretty much all of them leave some kind of mark where the tattoo was.

In short tattoos are forever, you can cover it up, but you can't get rid of it. If you truly put your faith in Christ and repent, then like the face tattoo it lasts forever and can never truly be covered up. Sure people backslide, and have their struggles… But once you have truly been saved, you're different. You stay different. Once you have salvation like that tattoo it can't be lost or given away either. That's God's promise. Scripture says in John 10 that unless you are stronger than God, you can't lose, give back, or otherwise have revoked your salvation. That's his promise to us! That when saved, we have eternal security. Ultimately the conclusion of salvation is glorification – which I'm sure you know means heaven.

So we've talked about Prayer, we've talked about what it means to be a Christian. Now lets talk about one more thing. Joshua and his people prayed to God to seek his advice, and God promised them the battle was theirs. He promised Jericho would be theirs, he promised Jericho's walls would fall, he promised that AI would be theirs the second time, and he promised that the battle against this confederation of kings would be theirs. You see when God promises things they happen. Right from the start, if you look at Genesis 3 Starting about vs 15, it talks about the curses that Adam, Eve, and the snake (among other things) all received from God. It says that the snake will bruise Christ, but that Christ will Crush satan. The moment Christ died on the cross and was buried, and then rose again Satan was defeated. Sin was defeated. A way was made for us to spend eternal life with Christ.


Its just as simple as your ABC's. First you have to accept the Lord Jesus Christ, and then believe in you r heart that God raised him from the dead, and confess your sins and he is faithful and just to forgive your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. That's all it takes folks. Its simple, straightforward, easy, and essential. Without having done that for your self, there is no way to get into heaven. You're just fooling yourself, and trying to fool God like the gibeonites.

So if that's you tonight, while the praise team is singing come on up to the alter and talk to me. Maybe you're ready to join the church, same thing, come on up to the alter. Maybe you've never been baptized, I've been talking to a couple of people that want to get baptized. If any one else wants to be baptized come on up and talk to me. Maybe you just have someone on your heart and you want to pray for them, the alter is open, come on up and lay your concerns before the throne of God.

Communion

the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me." In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me." For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.1 cor 11 23-26

Pick Ushers.
