Mark 5:21-end
Our people group this week are the Bondo of India. There are 12000 people that speak the Bondo Language. They are largely Hindu, but incorporate some traditional folk religion elements too including ceremonies to find out from the spirits if a person died of sorcery or natural causes. They do not have access to the gospel in their own language, and in fact being in the lowest caste very very few of them are even capable of reading and writing in their language, so they must be taught to read and write along side teaching them the gospel. There are only 2 known believers amongst all the Bondo people in the world. 

Pray for God to send workers to their midst. Pray for God to instill a love of learning about him, and learning about their language as well. 

I had a strange encounter with a man the other night. I was at the water mill filling a 5 gallon jug with water, and a stranger approached me asking for money. This isn’t all that uncommon in our area. I started digging through my pockets as he drew closer, and I could smell the alcohol on him. On his breath, seeping out of his pores, you know the type I think. Any way, he told me never mind about the money and asked if he could ask me for advice instead. I agreed, and warned him that I am a pastor. The man began to weep. He told me that he had asked three groups of people for money and all three told him God wanted him to get his life right and to give up liquor. He never really got around to asking a question, but I asked him “sounds like God’s trying to get ahold of you, what do you think he’s trying to say”. The man responded that he wasn’t sure, but he was pretty sure if he kept drinking he would die. Told him it sounds like God wants him to give up liquor. He asked me to pray for him, and I told him I would, and that our church would be praying for him. Then we prayed right there – we prayed what Kenny Duffield would pray over folks struggling with alcohol, that it would taste like gasoline and lighter fluid, that drinking would make him miserable, that drinking would make him vomit at the thought. That anyone who would try to put a bottle to his mouth would be offended and driven off. That the only people who would be able to tolerate being in his life would be people that would help him become and stay sober. He looked stunned afterwards. But I asked him, if God sent you three people tonight to tell you to stop drinking, what do you think your next steps should be? He said he was going to quit, and checked himself into the hospital. 

I love that God doesn’t give up on us. That he keeps sending warnings our way, that he’s persistent in warning us even when we choose to reject him. Persistent in persuing us even knowing what our decision will be. Persistent in chipping away the karst that’s grown on our hearts. 

Lets read our chapter tonight. Mark 5:21

So the first and last story are about Jarius and his daughter. I’ve heard this passage taught a number of times, not only by pastors and youth pastors, but also by sundayschool teachers, and yet no one brought up an important detail. Someone read vs 22. Who was Jarius? A leader of the synagogue. What did that mean in practical terms? A leader of the synagogue was one who was appointed by the religious leaders to attend to all of the elements of worship so that they were fully prepared. Also, they were responsible for the building, and a number of other things that sort of makes them seem to be like our modern day Deacons. 

Its not a perfect correlation, but its close in a lot of ways that matter. Let me ask you this, how does one become a deacon? He has to have proved himself over time, and then is elected by those with authority in a church. In  a Baptist church, deacons are elected by the members. There has to be a proven track record of loving and living for the Lord though doesn’t there? Of looking out for the people of the church, of being on the side of the people in the church. 

Who had the power in a synagogue in Jesus day? And would they have been on Jesus side? What if it were the Sanhedrin – the rabbis that were political authorities of the day, would they have been on Jesus side? Their power was threatened by Jesus. They believed Jesus was going to cause a rebellion that would have caused their comfy positions to have been redefined, or done away with. If they could just keep things the way they were, then their comfort, and security would remain. Perhaps some though there would be less death if they just kept things calm. But I think the truth is what Josephus the historian wrote – that the Sanhedrin was full of collaborators. People that had sold out their people for political and financial gain. In a people group that put the community ahead of the individual this is a great betrayal. In our capitalistic society we almost expect the lost to behave this way, to put their own power, and authority, and gain ahead of that of the community. That assumption underpins the way we talk about our world. When we talk about Big Business – we are mostly assuming that the business has its own best interests at heart. Big pharmaceuticals is like that, we assume their goal isn’t our cure, but our long and expensive treatment. Because once someone is cured, they don’t make big pharma any more money. That’s why some people speculate cancer hasn’t been fully cured, because chemo is incredibly expensive, and highly biddable. It takes scores of treatments, and can cost as much as your house to treat. We expect people in the world to be in it for themselves. I think that’s part of why it shocks us so much when we hear about the failings of pastors. We expect pastors to be above all that. The Sanhedrin was expected to be above all that, the Pharisees were expected to be above all that, and yet they were collaborating with rome, and Jarius had thrown his lot in with them at the local level. He was their guy, or he wouldn’t have been elected to be a leader of the synagogue. 

Think of it like benedict Arnold, finding himself in a jam, and calling George Washington for help. This is a huge huge deal for Jarius to have done. There is a boldness in it. I think the love of his daughter compelled him to try anything. Even if it meant talking to the enemy. He was putting his life and livelihood at risk. The comfortable life that came from working with, or possibly being himself a collaborator was very likely at risk here. 

A parent would give up anything for their child though.  Jarius daughter we find out later is just on the cusp of adulthood for this time period. Shes old enough to start thinking about betrothal and marriage. Girls at this time period were typically married off at the age of 12 or 13. These were Jarius last months and maybe year with his little girl before she became a wife, and in time a mother. 

Secondly I want you to look at the second story being told here. The second story is of the woman who had the issue of blood. This would have been a big deal back then. The bleeding trouble would have barred her from the synagogue. It made her ceremonially unclean, and because it was perpetual for years and years, She would have been a social outcast. This for her would have been on par with being a leper. No socialization, no shopping, no finding a husband. Worst of all she would have been barred from entering the temple. No worship, no sacrifices, no way for her sin to be covered. Imagine what it would be like living with the reality that whenever this bleeding issue took you, that you would be bound for hell, and there wasn’t a single thing you could do about it. 

Then one day she saw Jesus, and she knew what she had to do. She too risked everything. Ceremonial law required a period of 7 days spent outside the city in a tent going through rituals for women to be clean. It was for the health of the woman mostly. Anything she touched in those seven days was considered unclean. Clothing, seats, bedding, anything she touched, and anyone she touched was considered unclean. So as she pushed her way through the crowed, she under the law made bunches of people unclean, and Jesus too. Everyone she touched would have needed to go through purification rituals – basically bathing – to be allowed under the law back out in polite society. 

I remember this one time we were at a grocery story, and the girl that was scanning all the food we were buying had these open oozing sores on her hands and arms. Bleeding, pussy, nastiness. It was probably a staph infection. But staph can live for a year on things that aren’t properly cleaned. Staph is highly infectios, and you never really know what kind of staph infection that stranger has. Is it the kind that will respond to antibiotics? Is it not? You just don’t know, and our reaction was to recoil, and ask her not to handle our food. We called a manager over, and he sent her home. Someone like that is a risk to public health. Who knows how many people this young womans puss dripping bleeding arm exposed to staph, and heaven only knows what else. There are so many diseases that can be given to other people by contacting their blood. Its better not to be exposed to it. Especially in a world where antibiotics don’t exist yet, blood was a thing to be feared. She may have been viewed a bit like typhoid mary, or someone who was just shedding disease and sickness. This would have been alarming enough that she may have been known by sight. 

Don’t forget, in the midst of all this Jarius is still on pins and needles, maybe his daughter will die, maybe not. But his last best hope for his little girl was just exposed to something that made him unclean, and maybe sick, and contact with his daughter could maybe make her sick. 

I’m reminded of my sister Genie’s fiancé Dave coming to ask my dads permission to marry her. We had a bunch of family all together, and he waited till he could pull my dad aside relatively alone. I was there, but it was just the three of us. He was pretty nervous, you could tell. But he worked his way up to the point and asked Dad if he could marry genie. Dad responded with “well you know, I thought this might be coming, and I’ve been watching you…. Right then a bunch of people walked up, and dad stopped talking, and dealt with the people. What a note to stop talking on! I’ve been watching you… He handled it well though. Ultimately they ended up getting married and have been married for a number of years now. But that anxiety in the waiting I imagine was hard for Dave, and would have been exceedingly hard for Jairus, 

So this woman boldly enters into Jesus presence, and touches him. She must have been desperate, and believed Jesus was her only hope for living a normal life, for maybe having a family, for being able to do mundane things like going shopping. Jesus was her only hope to be clean under the law and not spend an eternity in hell. 

Likewise Jesus was Jairus daughters only hope. She was laying their dying. Right at the cusp of womanhood her life was draining away. Ultimately she would die before Christ would get there.

I think the woman with the issue of bleeding had a couple purposes here. For one thing, it was to slow things down. You know how it is in an emergency involving your kid, you want the ambulance there NOW, and to get them to the help they need NOW. But Jesus had other purposes. Some of the commentators said it helped Jarius to have faith, when he saw the woman with the issue of blood healed. I think he had a lot of faith to start with or else he never would have approached Christ. 

PLUS this gives us another opportunity to see an allegory between our state apart from Christ, and with Christ. 

What does ephesians 2 say about us apart from Christ? Sons of disobedience, children of wrath. Dead in our trespasses and sins. What does a dead person contribute to their salvation? Nothing. Just the sin that makes it necessary. What did this little girl contribute to her resurrection from the dead? Nothing. Jesus did all the work. She was dead to the best of the knowledge of the ancient world, and her family had already started grieving her. She was not able to have faith like the woman with the issue of bleeding. She was a corpse, laying there, unable to move, not breathing, heart stopped, dead as it gets. Dead. Eph 2:4 But because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, 5 made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions—it is by grace you have been saved.

That little girl hadn’t done anything to deserve being raised from the dead. We don’t remember her because she had a guiness world record for something. We don’t remember because she was a master Olympian. We don’t remember her for being the smarest person, the most holy person, the most giving person that ever lived. All history recorded about her was that she was a regular girl. On the cusp of marriage age, and that she died, but was raised again by Christ. 

Does that story sound familiar to any of you? Any of you ever been dead in your trespasses and sins? Dead apart from Christ? A useless corpse? It should sound familiar to all of you. We have all been right there. Scripture says our righteousness is as filthy rags. The best we can do apart from Christ is ceremonial uncleanliness that may or may not be a risk to society at large. 

But God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son that whosoever believes in him shall not perish but have ever lasting life. Jesus walked over to our casket, reached in, helped us out of it, and took our place. He took our death, died for us, he was buried in a borrowed tomb, and rose again to life three days later. Then ascended to the right hand of the father where he is to this day. 

Like that little girl there is nothing inherently good enough in us to warrant God having saved us, but he chose to rescue us any way didn’t he? He chose to send his son to die on the cross – one of the most brutal ways of killing someone ever conceived by the twisted evil mind of man, for his glory and so that one day you and I will spend an eternity in heaven with Him. Jesus has already done all the ahrd parts.
