Good morning! There are three things that were going to talk about today. Three things that don’t seem to go together much at all, but that I think you’ll agree later do. Were going to talk about fishing, Oxen, and school. 

Were going to start with Oxen. Are you guys familiar with oxen? Anyone ever had any oxen, or had a team of oxen doing work around your farm? No? me either. I had to look it up. I mean we all have a general idea of how that works. We know that two oxen at least make a team, and they are yoked together, and tied to a plow or a cart, or in the old days a wagon. But what I didn’t know – and maybe should have – is that Oxen aren’t born knowing how to pull a wagon, or plow. They are taught. You know how they are taught? They take a little weak inexperienced oxen, and they yoke it to a great big oxen. The little oxen really doesn’t do much pulling. The young one gets in the way, and does it wrong, but its ok from the farmers purposes for two reasons, for one because the young oxen needs to learn, and number two Because the big strong ox is big enough and strong enough to make sure things get done right. The big ox does all the work, and the little oxen learns what has to be done. The big more trained ox kept the little oxen in line, and sort of pulled him along through the work. Once the little ox goes through the work yoked to the big strong ox long enough the little ox figures it out, and learns the expectations of his famer, and understands the demands of the work. The little oxen on its own cant do it right, can’t do the work. But the big ox can handle both Jobs, he can train the little ox, and drag the plow or wagon, or whatever else needs to be done. 

Our scripture today is going to be in Mathew 11, were going to focus on 28-30, but lets read from vs 25 thru 30 for a little context, and I’ll give you some more context while you’re turning there. 

In Jesus day. They weren’t under grace, they were under the law. Today God has given us a new and better system through Jesus Christ, but back in the old testament, and even through the beginning of the new testament, they were under the law. There were hundreds of laws in scripture that governed every aspect of life, and there were thousands more added on top by the religious authorities. They were sort of handcuffed to this cosmic check list of good and bad things they had to check off each day. Had they done enough of this, or that, did they sufficiently avoid doing these other bad things. The Sabbath for instance is one way they got things twisted. The jewish laws derived from scripture (from the Torah), from the Talmud, the mishna and from rabinnic tradition are called as a group the halakhah. It contained a lot of rules. For instance on the sabbath, on their day of rest, travel was forbidden. Except,  from one of your dwellings to another of your dwellings, and so long as it wasn’t more than so many steps. So what they would do is set up little camps along the path, every so many steps. They would travel from little camp to little camp, and in so doing they could travel from their home, to basically anywhere they wanted to, as long as they only went from camp to camp. There was the law, and then all the little ways they tried to step through loopholes to abide by the letter of the law, and yet still do the things they wanted to do that were prohibited under the law – like traveling on the sabbath. The steps things they had to do, in order to circumvent the law, and do what they wanted were exhausting. Just to get to church this morning, and I live about 3 miles away, I would have had to make about 6 camps, one every 3000 feet or so, in order just to walk to church, and forget about driving, if you accidently make a light come on, or a spark, that’s a sin. If you turn the car, that’s a sin, if you step on the brakes, that’s work, that’s a sin. There are ways around that, and living in a city is one of those, because the steps only count starting from the last house according to negative Mishna #321. Following all of the laws all the time, and thinking about the laws so that you can create counter measures would be exhausting, it would be like having an extra job conceiving of loopholes. The law was a shackle, and getting around the law a boat anchor. It was a heavy burden that had to be drug through life. Because even in the midst of their extreme efforts to avoid sin, they were sinning. No one, can ever fully live up to the law to the extent that God suggests. You’d have a better chance at survival being shackled to a semi, tossed into the deepest part of the ocean without a key. Today we frequently have a similar shackle, we aren’t locked in the shackle, instead we tie it in a knot around our ankles. We cling to it tightly. We wrap our bodies around legalism and cling to it with everything we have, when the truth is starkly different. 

I heard a pastor give an illustration one time, he said I want you to imagine two different people. The first person woke up early before work, and spent an hour in prayer, and an hour in God’s word. He arrived at work feeling refreshed, and happy. He worked his full day, and gives godly advice to a few who needed it and on the way home, he runs into a person that desperately needs to hear the gospel. 

The second person set their alarm early. They intended to get up early but pushed their sleep button until they were on the edge of being late for work. No time in Gods word, their only prayer, please God don’t let me be late. He leaves home scattered, and frazzled, arrives at work feeling stressed about every aspect of his morning, and isn’t able to slow down enough to talk to give advice to anyone. Though he too works his 8 hour day, and at the end of the day he runs into someone that needs to hear the gospel. 

Which of these two do you think was more righteous? Which one do you think God is going to bless?

Alright, lets read our scripture. Just to recap, the law was a burden, and if you shackle yourself to it today, it’s a burden also.  

Trick question. Scripture says no one is righteous, not one. That our best efforts are like filthy rags. That our hearts long for evil all the time apart from Christ doing a work in us. That’s why I hate that every kids movie says to the young lady “follow your heart”. Our hearts are factories of idols Calvin writes. so no. Do not follow your heart, follow Christ and the Word of God.  

The truth is neither of those two people are righteous on their own. Scripture says we are hidden in Christ with God. Christ’s righteousness is extended to us. It covers us. If both of those two are Christians, they have Christ’s righteousness. If they aren’t, they don’t have any righteousness on their own. As Christians the shackles and weight of the law is a thing we are released from. We don’t have to worry about… well I have to be careful here. I don’t want you to hear the sermon and go away thinking any sin is ok because we aren’t under the Law. We aren’t under the law. We should want to obey Christ and his commands out of gratitude, and not some sense of obligation to the old testament. We are free from the obligation of the law. Does that make sense? Instead of a shackle, its road sign now. 

All of this cumulatively leads us to two conclusions. Firstly we give up all we have to Jesus. We are the little ox yoked to the big one. Jesus is the big ox. We give up our rights, and privileges, we give up our money, and our dreams, and hopes and ambitions, and yoke ourselves to Christ. Christ then leads us around to do his work. He trains us in the work we are to do. We cant be righteous, but because we are yoked to Christ, we like the little ox are learning the work the farmer – our King expects from us. We learn how to be righteous like Christ is righteous, we learn how to be holy. We learn how to do all of the things that God has prepared for us to do in advance. Every gospel conversation, every sermon preached, every bit of good and godly advice that has ever been given has been given and had because of that person being yoked to Christ. 

It sort of reminds me of fishing. Did you ever go fishing with your dad when you were little? I remember probably the first time I had ever been fishing. I was little enough that they didn’t let me bait my own hook, not because I was squeamish around shrimp, but because there was a hook involved. So they were baiting my hook. It was one of those little kids Disney fishing poles. I think I had Donald duck or maybe mickey. Any way, they helped me bait the hook, they helped me cast, then they helped me by convincing me I needed to be patient or I’d never catch any fish. Then when I finally caught a fish they helped me set the hook, and reel it in.  In hindsight I would have never been able to ever catch a fish that first time without help at every point. What did I really do on my own, but sit there still, after I’d been convinced that was what I had to do. Yet at the end of the day, I believed I had caught that fish. I don’t remember the second time I went fishing. But I suspect it didn’t go much differently. Really little kids swinging fish hooks can be… lets call it fun.

David Platt says it like this, before “you  had  a  people  whose  religion  was  dominated  by  all  the  things  that  they  were supposed to do. And that is what He is talking about with this burden that is heavy that has made  them  weary. You  had  people  who  were  living  under  all  these  rules  and  all  these regulations  and  they  never  felt  like  they  could  measure  up. And  they  were  constantly getting more laws and more rules and more regulations put on them”. Which is why it was so monumental that Jesus comes along side us, like my parents did in teaching me to fish, and helps us along every step of the way. Jesus knew that no matter how good we could possibly be, it wouldn’t be enough to live up to his Fathers standard. So after emptying himself of parts of his deity, and coming to earth in humiliation, born in a feed trough, raised by a humble carpenter, lived a perfect life, and was killed for it. After resurrecting three days later, he yokes himself to us, so that we can grow as Christians, and increasingly better reflect Christ. 

When they are training young oxen. They don’t just use any ox to train the young ones, they use their bext ox. They use the one that does the work the best, so that every ox that learns from him, will be like him. 

It’s a learning process. I’ve just finished another semester, and it is a wonderful thing. 5 classes left. One of which is going to be pretty brutal – Hebrew. When I think of learning, and seminary I think of writing a lot of papers, and memorizing Greek and Hebrew words. Paradigm lists. David remember DIpthongs? He was on the phone with me a bunch of nights while I was learning Greek. I figured if I could explain it to him, in a way that made sense to him I was more likely to remember it. So he sat there and listened till two or three in the morning, night after night after night while I was in college. It occurs to me, that in a few months that will have been twenty years ago. Learning can be exhausting. But that’s the beauty of the system King Jesus set up for us. It can be exhausting, but we are yoked to the bigger stronger smarter more holy, ox in Christ Jesus. We should do the best we can. But when the little ox is tired, the big ox keeps doing the work, and pulls the little ox along with it. The word Learn in vs 29 is key. It basically means “learn to be my disciple”. In following Christ we find rest, and peace, and hope. We have help in the midst of struggle.  We find victory over sin. Obedience to Christ benefits us. In fact where it says my burden is light, that Greek word can also be translated “beneficial”. His burden is light, and brings us benefits. 

This is the beauty of Christianity says David Platt. We don’t have to bear the weight of our sin anymore. And this is what Jesus is calling them to, but this is not where Christianity stops. I am convinced it is where most of our Christianity has stopped. Most of us view Christianity as giving Jesus our sin and that is it. The only problem is what do you do now? Now that you have given Jesus your sin, how are you going to live your life? How do you live the Christian life once you  have  given  Jesus your  sin? If  you  stop  there,  we  have  still  got  a  lot of  questions unanswered. And we are missing out on a lot of what Jesus is calling us to. So  I  want  you  to  see  that  when  we  talk  about  giving  up  all  we  have  for  Jesus,  being  a follower of Christ, giving Him the full weight of our sin, that is not where Christianity stops, it is where Christianity starts. The second thing we give Him is we give Him our complete and utter inability to obey God. Our complete and utter inability to obey God. I know that “utter” and “complete” mean the same thing, but I thought about putting three or four other words in there just to make the point. We need to get the point here. Complete and utter, total, absolute, inability to obey God.

We have this idea that we can by obeying the law somehow please God through our actions. The old Baptist rhyme says “we don’t drink or smoke or chew and we won’t go with girls that do”. We think somehow that by simply not smoking we are suddenly good enough, clean enough, pure enough to please God. Not smoking is a good thing. Its moving in the right direction. But on balance with the whole of our lives we still fall so far short that we can’t ever hope to please God through following the rules. The whole thought process that we just have to avoid sin to please God is backwards. We have to avoid sin out of gratitude for our savior. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? May it never be Paul says. The heinous trap of legalism is living like you could one day hope to earn God’s grace and mercy and pleasure because of your own goodness. That is pure arrogance. What does scripture say about our righteousness? What does Jonathan Edwards say about what we bring to the table at salvation? In truth We are hungry starving naked beggars, being approached by the king, and offered clothes, and food, and family. 

What a marvelous God we serve. That he would come along side us like that, with all our mess, and love us enough to die for us is one of the most wonderful things in all of scripture. 

We give up all we have; all of our Sin, and mess, and rebellion.  But we gain more than we could have ever even dream of earning on our own. We may not be able to please God, but Jesus can. We may not be able to do the work, but Jesus Can. We may fall short, but Jesus didn’t, and Jesus is willing to help us do the work. 

It all starts with the gospel.
