Were going to be in Mathew 5 today, Mathew 5 if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. Were going to be talking about something that’s important for the Christian to remember. 

While you’re turning there I heard a story of two brothers. The first brother was walking to school one day, and he encountered a bully, and the bully beat him up, emptied his wallet, and continued on his way stealing about 15$ from him each week. A few bucks each day, just enough to buy his lunch at school. Every day he would try and hide, but the bully seemed to find him, and finally, when he would see the bully coming, he would dump his money on the ground and run away. At least that way he figured he would be getting beaten up any more. 

The second boy, the brother of the first boy was on his way to school, and encountered the same bully. Being a little bigger he decided to fight back, and they fought, and the brother shouted and hollered, and he fought the bully to a stand still. Neither one of them really had gained any advantage over the other, until finally the schools SRO came and broke up the fight. Turned out the bully had a knife. The SRO asked why did you fight back? Why didn’t you just give the guy your wallet knowing he had a knife? And the kid said I’d rather be dead than lose my learners permit. He didn’t have any money, he had spent it all on that learners permit and he refused to allow that to fall into the hands of his bully. 

Who was right? Who was wrong? This world tells us you have to get whats yours, and you have to fight to keep whats yours. You have to fight to get ahead, you don’t roll over and take anything, you do what you need to do to protect you, to further you, to help yourself. 

But is that what God says? Lets read our scripture today and find out. But first lets pray for all of those experiencing persecution around the world today. Who will pray for the persecuted? 

Alright, lets read, mt 5:2-11

This is a radical sermon. Because it goes the exact opposite of what the world says. Blessed are the poor in spirit, the meek, the hungry, the merciful, the pure in heart, the peace makers, blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness sake, blessed are you who are reviled, persecuted, have evil uttered against you. 

Who wants to be most of those things?  Who wants to be poor, and struggle to find food. Who wants to be meek – ever heard the expression meekness is weakness? Who wants to be persecuted, reviled, and lied about? Who wants these things? 

Christ was these things. Scripture says Christ didn’t know where he would lay his head at night, he didn’t have a home, he wandered around, and lived off the generosity of others. He was meek, but not week, he could have called down a legion of angels, or caused peoples molecules to no longer stick together. He could have asked the ground to open up, and swallow his enemies. Christ wasn’t week. But he chose to be meek in the face of his enemies. He was persecuted, reviled, and lied about. Christ was all of the things, intentionall, all of the things that this verse talks about. 

Were going to zero in on one of these this week in particular. There were a number of things that started me thinking this direction this week, but mainly it was this. We were walking around in st Augustine, and came across this eastern orthodox shrine and while we were in there One of the other groups of people had a kid that recited part of the old Wesleyan hymn “gentle jesus meek and mild, see him as a little child, gentle jesus lamb of God, thou art my example be gentle jesus jamb of God, though art pitiful and kind. It keeps going. I don’t know all of it, I’m not super familiar with it. 

But I think we have this idea of meekness wrong. The hymn isn’t necessarily wrong. Jesus was meek. He was a child for a time. He was the Lamb o God. He was our example. He was kind, and during the peak of his torment on earth scripture says he was no longer recognizable from the things he endured, so that could be pitiful. I think its more referring to the theology of the humiliation of Christ, which starts with his birth as a human in a manger, and ends with his death on the cross. But to just say meek, and not flesh that out is I believe a disservice, and keeps our thinking about meekness shallow. let me read you the words of the Puritan Mathew Henry, he wrote “Common sense dictates that people who are meek will suffer insult and abuse, unable to even find some small corner where they can draw their breath – they are lambs among a pack of wolves; we know by nature that we must hunt with the hounds because to be a sheep is to risk becoming someone elses dinner”.

What does meek mean, anyone? 

IN English, not Greek, in English it means “to be deficient in courage, or docile, overly submissive”.  Not exactly things that sound like Christ.  And yet This word meek is used in the list of requirements for church leadership. Were to seek out pastors who have a meekness to them. Were to find elders, and deacons – we made willie our very first deacon last year, meekness is a quality were supposed to find. And yet from first glance meekness doesn’t sound like a quality that one would want. It goes contrary to worldly wisdom that being meek could have any benefit. Meekness seems like a liability, and yet were told to be meek, like Christ was meek.

Not exactly things that sound worthy of emulating. But as usual this is a weekness in English, and in translation more than a weakness in what God intended for us to know. Lets look at the Greek. The Greek word here is Praus. BDAG translates the word like this: “gentle, humble, consideration. Not overly impressed by ones importance, and able to be gentle in the face of their wrath”. Sounds a little better in those terms. Sounds like self control, sounds like humility, gentleness, thoughtfulness, and so forth all wrapped up into one word. But how the greeks actually used the word adds some more insight. I found these from Stephen Davey. He wrote that there are three ways that the greeks used the word meek. Firstly. A comforting fire was meek. Not the raging out of control your house is burning down, and theres nothing we can do kind of fire, but a gentle warm fire, in the fireplace, one that brings warmth and protection to the family. Not an out of control fire, that brings destruction, but a meek fire, one that has purpose, and use, and benefit. A controlled and beneficial, comforting fire. 

Secondly they used meek to describe a gentle breeze. Just the perfect amount of breeze. Not so much to bring destruction, but enough to push a boat across a lake, or enough to keep you cool while you’re working in florida heat. Not a destructive wind like francis, geanie, katrina, Irma, or these others that we’ve known. But a wind strong enough to bring benefits without destruction. 

Finally the third way they used the Greek word for meek, was to describe medicine. Medecine like wind or fire can be too much of a good thing. Everyones talking about this hydroxychloroquine right now. Taking a little bit of it, if your doctor prescribes it can help your body deal with and recover from covid-19 more quickly. Too much and you can die. Like with penicillin, a little penicillin can cure a bacterial infection. A lot of penicillin can cause some terrible side effects. A little medicine, an appropriate amount of medicine can be a God send, but too much and you can die, or wish you would. Or even become addicted to some. 

Dalia has to have a meek amount of poison. Her body needs a meek amount of chemo therapy in order to function right. Too much chemo will kill her, and too little and she can’t function normally. She has to have a “meek” amount of chemo for life to continue as normal. 

The link between all three things is not weakness, its not the inability to act. Its acting but in a measured and consistent way. Its power restrained to beneficial limits. Steven Davey says it’s the power to strike, but without the desire to get even. It’s the power of Christ to cleanse the temple with a whip in defense of his fathers honor. Or the silence of Christ in front of Pilate, refusing to defend himself. 

Its not about being defiant for me, or defending me, or standing up for me. 

One author wrote “meekness is being finished with me”. 

Think about that for a moment, that’s some deep stuff. Being meek is putting yourself on the backburner to do what honors God. When you have a neighbor that steals from you, like I do, anger wants you to stomp your feet, and yell until your grandfathers tools are returned, meekness secures them in something that locks. Anger – sin – would demand you get even. Meekness, Christ’s example demands we share the gospel. 

Meekness is dying to yourself. This puts off things that seem gratifying today, for tomorrow. Notice the promise the meek WILL inherit the earth. That’s a futuretense promise, that means it will happen one day in the future. Maybe not today or tomorrow, but one day. Meekness, in crucifying yourself, puts off what seems gratifying for the future. 

My sister said something that struck me as being related to this discussion. We were tired, we had walked like 8 miles on Monday. We went and seen the fort. We went and walked through the little town around it. We shopped in a hundred different stores, and climbed the 219 steps of the lighthouse in the area. By the time we got to Walmart we were exhausted. And then we had to deal with crowds and crabs at Walmart. Unfortunately Walmart didn’t even have all of the things we needed, so we had to go to publics as well.  By the time we were done, we were exhausted. The thought of throwing yourself into the relaxation of the pool, and just floating there for a while was intoxicating. I was tempted to leave everything in the car, and deal with it after we spent an hour or so relaxing in the pool. My sister said don’t trade on your future happiness. Don’t take less joy now, in exchange for greater joy later. 

I think that’s part of meekness. The ability to tell yourself no, to put your priorities on the back burner in exchange for God’s is dying to yourself, and that is part of meekness. 

Putting yourself to death, putting your desires on the back burner. I really desire to have ALL of the tools I inherited. I want them to stay as complete as they can. I really don’t want them to be stolen. But what’s more important, my grandfathers tools, or my neighbors salvation? Which do you think matters to God?

Mathew 6:19 says “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moths, and vermin destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but instead store up for yourself treasures in heaven where moths and vermin do not destroy and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is there your heart will be also.

One thing that is highly relevant right now is justice. All through church history stretching back even into the old testament, the followers of God have experienced persecution. Its sad, and it was wrong of the Romans, or Persians, and Egyptians to persecute God’s people. What has been the historic response of the church to persecution, to injustice? Under Nero, what did Paul do when persecution came, and bear with me, this is relevant to meekness. Was Paul writing letters to his representatives in the roman government? Was he setting up demonstrations in support of those being persecuted? Paul had been on both sides you’ll recall, he had been one who persecuted Christians, and then the Lord Got ahold of him, and made him a Christian, and then God used Paul to write most of the new testament. Paul, if anyone throughout history would have known what to do in the midst of injustice, and persecution. 

what did Paul do? Most of what we know comes from scripture, but I found an ancient source too, that I’ll read in a minute. Firstly we know he was arrested and brought to trial least twice. The first time, he wrote to timothy that he had been abandoned by all who knew him, that he was left to make his defense alone before the emperor, who we know to be Nero. We know prior to this he was in jail for about two years, and that his case was the least important one before nero. Nero drug his feet, and had little interest in dealing with this nobody jew. Ultimately, he’s released, he heads off to spain to preach the gospel, is arrested a second time, and put to death. How is that fair? Two years arrested, for something he didn’t do. Then put to death for the same things. He was accused of “spreading pestilence, sedition – or trying to overthrow the local authorities in Jerusalem, and violating – profaning – the temple of Jerusalem”. Yet Nero who lit the streets with the burning bodies of Christians, let him go. Where was the Justice in that? How was it fair that he be arrested? What about the Christians Nero used as street lights? Where was their justice when they were burned alive? 

We are never promised justice in this life. But the down trodden and oppressed who are meek will inherit the world in the next. Those who have experience injustice in this life, and yet remained meek will be leaders in the next. Stephen Davey writes “the marginalized, oppressed, and martyred followers of Christ will one day rule the world”. 

Justice won’t ever be perfect this side of heaven. We should follow Paul’s example when we are mistreated, and defend ourselves in non-violent means. In the midst of all that he called all believers to a closer walk with Christ, called all Christians to treat the authorities with respect they largely didn’t deserve. He treated the authorities that were mistreating him, and setting Christians on fire alive, with respect. With more respect than anyone who does such things deserves. Secondly he put his faith in God to defend and deliver him. He was alone, his friends abandoned him, as far as we can tell from biblical and non biblical literature Paul didn’t have a lawyer, or an earthly advocate. It was Paul and God, nose to nose with emperor nero. An emperor that may have been the most hostile towards Christians of any of the evil emperors. And with God’s help, Paul was set free and enabled to go on one more missionary journey. 

Where is your treasure? Is it in the Lord? IS your treasure in heaven? Is your savior your treasure? Or are you treasuring things of the earth? Paul’s treasure was the Lord. His hope was in the Lord, he depended on Justice coming from the Lord, and it did. Not in Pauls timing or in Paul’s way, but ultimately at the end of the day, God brought his faithful servant Paul home to be with him in glory. 

If your trust is in your self, or your money, or the government, or anything of this earth, then one day when you take that last breath, you’ll find out your trust was misplaced. There is only one who can save us, only one from whom perfect justice flows like a river. Only one in whom we can trust and be set free, and that is Jesus Christ. 

If he is not your treasure, then you need to get to know him today!
