Mk 14

Of all the stories about easter, in all the gospels, and all the passages, I think the one that stands out in my mind the most is this one in mk 14. If you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, open there with me. 

One of the things I deeply respect about the bible is it shows every facet of life a human can go through. There are no subjects that were in existence in that day that are shunned or not talked about. Todays passage talks about one of the most important betrayals in all of history or literature. Some of you might be thinking of shakespears portrayal of the betrayal of Julius Ceasar. That iconic scene where Julius turns to his friend and says “E tu Brute?” and you too brutus? But no. Were talking about the betrayal of Christ by one of his close friends, one of his disciples, Judas.
Were going to set the stage a little first before we open our bibles. For one thing Judas was kind of a shady character. We know in other places in scripture that he was stealing from the money box. That was why He was upset when Jesus feet were anointed with a perfume that cost a years salary. He wanted the woman to sell it, so the money would go in his box, so he could skim some money out of it. He was a thief, he was the villain in this story. It took some time for things to sink in for all of the disciples, but I think at this point he is the only disciple that is absolutely utterly still lost. 

We can know this because of a passage in Luke 22 that’s telling the same story, but from a different perspective for different readers, Luke points out that at this point Satan enters Judas. 

We have all read about demonic possession in scripture. We remember the demoniac that had 2000 demons in him. How they had tried to restrain him but failed, how he cursed, and ran around naked. How his actions were erratic, violent, and dangerous. But then he encountered Jesus, the demons were cast out, and he became a reasonable, normal human being again. We know these stories of possession in the bible. So demonic possession is something they were aware of, that they had dealt with, that they had seen, and could describe. These were normal demons. Imagine what it would have been like for Satan, the demon in charge, to have inhabited Judas. That’s what scripture says happened. This is in my mind proves, that at this point in time Judas was not a true believer. We know this because true believers in Jesus Christ cannot be possessed by a demon.  They can be oppressed. That is demons can mess with them. But demons can’t control them. Demons can’t inhabit their body and make decisions for true believers. He may have had a change of heart before he killed himself, we don’t know. What we do know is at this point in time, he could not have been saved. Because demons can’t inhabit, can’t possess a Christian. Whatever else Judas was, he was not a Christian at this exact moment. 

So satan enters Judas. This shady follower of Christ. This thief. Satan forces judas, or encourages judas, or interacts with judas, and judas heads straight for the most corrupt, and most political of the temple leaders the Sanhedrin and hatches a plan with them to betray Christ. 

His price? Was 30 pieces of silver. 30 pieces of silver was the cost of a slave in that day and age. For the average cost of another mans life, Jesus was was betrayed and condemned to death. 

This 30 pieces of silver was a small token compared to what Martha poured out on the feet of Jesus. Marthas pint of perfume would have cost an entire years wages, while Judas 30 pieces of silver could have been earned in any menial job in about 4 months. 30 pieces of silver was about four months pay. 

So while Martha traded likely everything she had, all her earthly wealth for Christ, Judas traded Christ for about four months salary. 

Lets open our bibles to Mk 14, and read, we will be starting towards the end of vs 41-50, are we all there? 

Jesus knew this was coming. In the preceeding verses he had been praying to his father. Saying he would be obedient no matter what, but that if it was possible, that God would provide another way. This was reminiscent of Abraham and Isaac. At the last moment, God sent a Ram, and had him get stuck in a thicket, and the ram was sacrificed. Jesus was asking that if there was another possible way, that God provide it. But even so, he said, he would be obedient. 

The first thing I want to point out is the number of people present. In our passage today it says a crowd. This passage is repeated several times in the bible, and in one of those, it says a spiron. A spiron is a greek word for a specific number of roman soldiers. Its like today, if there was a group of soldiers present, and someone in charge called them a regiment you would know you had at least a thousand soldiers in front of you. Or in the marines, if someone said there was a MEU present. A marine expeditionary unit, you would know that referred to a specific number of men. Likewise with Spiron, it referred to a group of at least 600 roman centurions. In addition to the centurions you would have had the temple soldiers, the Jewish soldiers that guarded the temple, the Sanhedrin, the Pharisees, and the high priest. One source I read said josephus a first century historian wrote that there could have been as many as a thousand temple soldiers. For an opportunity to defeat Christ, they would have likely called up most if not all of them. The 600 centurions would have likely represented most of the soldiers present in the city as well. The roman peace keeping, occupying force. 

So when mark says a crowd, he means it! This wasn’t your childs story book scene with a half dozen or dozen soldiers in gleaming bronze armor, this was a significant event, and a significant amount of people. Have you ever heard a thousand men marching? Now add in bronze armor, shields, and an iron sword. You would have been able to hear them coming. They likely would have had torches to light the way. The whole countryside would have been lit up as they walked up the side of this mountain towards Christ. Jesus knew what was coming. He saw what was coming, and yet he allowed them to take him into custody. A group like that, he probably could have hid in the shadows. He could have called down a legion of angels and made a way through the soldiers. There is a point where God obscures jesus and he walks right out of a crowd, he could have done any of these things, but he did not. He obediently endured what would come next for your sake and mine. 

So Jesus stands there as what seems like half the countryside turns out with swords, coming up the mountainside to arrest him. It strikes me that in all likelihood some of the same people that cheered for him on Sunday, help arrest him here in our passage today, and also crucified him on Friday. Jesus knew that. He knew it would be Judas that betrayed him. He obedient went through it any way. 

Scripture doesn’t say whether he knew he would be betrayed by kiss or not though. 

There were a number of types of kiss back then. You could kiss the hand of a superior. Your king, your roman ruler, your high priest. Greeting them with a kiss on the hand was appropriate. One would also kiss a rabbi, or a teacher on the hand. Kisses on the cheek was and is a common greeting for equals though. In fact when I was in Europe they warned us that in france you kiss the right cheek first. But in Italy you kiss the left cheek first. 

As a weird American, I got away with handshakes and hugs. They expected it of me, but the missionaries who had spent more time in france and Italy were more sensitive to the expectations to kiss cheeks. I became pretty good friends with one missionary named Chris, she was a missionary to Italy, but was spending time in france along with the rest of us who were in france for a few weeks. She said it was a really difficult adjustment, and the first trip she made to france, she went to greet the missions orgs international president who was a missionary to france, and saught to show off how much Italian culture she had picked up by kissing his cheek. Being accustomed to the French way, he turned his head left to give her his right cheek, while she turned her face right to give him her right cheek, and they ended up meeting in the middle, and kissed each other. 

The face kiss was and is a sign of respect from one equal to another. So not only does Judas betray Christ, he announces his unbelief in the same moment. Its in some ways a rejection of Christ as Rabi, as King, as Lord. Further He tells Jesus in a non-verbal, cultural way that He was equal to Jesus. 

Who else exhibited so much pride? I’ll give you a hint. Who inhabited Judas right then? Who possessed his body? 

An author named Colin smith wrote “It’s easy to dismiss Judas as a villain or a victim, but I’m struck by the fact that, in many ways, he was just like me. Judas was a follower of Jesus and a preacher of the gospel, but there was a doublemindedness about him. In the end, he abandoned the faith he once professed”. In one of my bible study classes, they said its important in parables, to find the person symbolic of god, and then find the one we should identify with. 

This is not a parable. But I think in this story the whole of human kind redeemed or not can identify with Judas. What does the hymn say? It was MY sin that held him there until it was accomplished. We are responsible for the need for Christ to die on the cross. Its our sin that betrays Christ with a kiss. Before you say but wait preacher, I’m a Christian, you just explained that Judas was not. 

Lets look at that. Judas did make a form of a commitment to Christ – more than many of us – Judas gave up his life, left everything to follow Jesus. Judas was involved actively in ministry, judas preached the gospel. Through Judas God healed the sick, and cast out demons. Judas spent 3 years full time in persuit of Jesus. 

Judas witnessed miracles. He was there when Jesus fed the 5000, he was there when the storm was calmed, when lazarus was raised from the dead. He heard all the teachings of Christ, From Christ. I mean it doesn’t get much better, or more clear than that. To have Jesus Christ as your teacher. Colin wrote: “With (his own) eyes, (Judas) saw the clearest evidence. With his ears, he heard the finest teaching. With his feet, he followed the greatest example. And yet this man still betrayed Jesus.

It was my sin that held him there, until it was accomplished. 

We are no less guilty than Judas. Every time we put our own needs, our own wants, our own desires, and ambitions ahead of anything Christ would have us do, or our relationship with Christ, and yet claim to be followers of Christ, we are betraying Jesus just like judas, with a kiss. Its like that scene I mentioned earlier, Julius ceasar stabbed, and he turns to his friend and says you too brutus? E tu brute? E tu greg? E tu dottie? E tu Paula? E tu Kurt?

Praise God Jesus knew we would be like that and chose to die for us any way. Praise God that death couldn’t hold Jesus. That the story doesn’t end with Jesus death. Because 3 days later, after Jesus died, he rose again. Death couldn’t hold him. For a truly all powerful God, could we expect any less? Jesus is the only one that knows the way from here to what comes next. He’s the only major religious figure that came back, and told us the way. If you look at every other major religion, all their guys are dead. Budda is dead, mohammad is dead, joseph smith is dead, the founder of Mormonism – guess what? Dead.  Krishna is dead too. Charles Taze Russel – is dead too. 

I have used this quote before, and I’ll bring it up again. So many people think they have to get things right, they have to fix themselves before they are good enough to become a Christian. When in fact that’s not true at all. Jonathan Edwards said “the only thing we can contribute to salvation is the sin that made it necessary”. A man named Toplady said it like this: “Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling”. That is what we must do. Cling to Christ. 

In a moment I’ll give you a chance to do just that. But first let me explain a little more about it.

Gospel
