I read an article the other day that said Americans today are the most secure we have ever been, but plagued by insecurities more than any other generation. We have more money, and food, and security, and comfort than ever, and yet more fears and anxieties and worries. There is a meme going around talking about the things that were going to kill us over the last twenty years, y2k, and sars, and ebola, melting polar ice caps, Anthrax, West Nile Virus. Bird flu, Ecoli, the end of the mayan calander, Isis, Measles and Russia, Zika, Migrants, and fake news have all been in the media as what was going to kill us. Did y2k kill us? No. What about zika? Al Gore predicted that in seven years, ten plus years ago the polar ice caps would have melted and florida will be largely under water. But is it? Are we? What about the super volcanos they keep saying are going to erupt? Earth quakes that cause florida to break off and sink into the sea. Extinction level asteroids pummeling earth are supposedly past due, not to mention a pole shift that may alter what point of the earth is actually north. Maybe florida sinks under sea, and the equater is suddenly the north pole. Maybe! Who knows? If this guy or that guy or gal gets elected, the nation will come to an end. As many things as there are in this world, there is someone out there that is afraid of them. 

Perhaps more frightening than all of that is where will your soul spend an eternity. So we are going to spend some time talking about worry and eternal security. Open your bibles, to Mt 6:25, Philippians 4:6-7 and while you do lets talk about our people group of the week. 

Lets read. 

So there were as of Thursday 8 cases of corona virus in florida 6 of them in Hillsboro or Manatee, one in Santa Rosa florida, and another who became ill while traveling in California. There was a couple from citrus who were on a cruise ship, that lived in citrus, but they have recovered. People are so frightened of Corona virus that all of the hand sanitizer in the county had been bought up, and all of it on amazon had been bought up and was being re-sold for exorbitant prices. Instead of a couple of dimes an oz, its selling for 2-4$ an oz on amazon. People are opportunistic, and being in crisis doesn’t change that. 

So what are we as a church planning to do about Corona Virus?

Firstly, we are not going to panic. For a couple reasons. For one, on average across all age groups and genders in china there was less than a .4% chance of death. 

China. Where they don’t have enough doctors. China, where you have as good of a chance to make it through whether you’re at the hospital or at home in some areas. China where there were more people sick than than hospital beds by several orders of magnitude. China where in many provinces including many places in wuhan the sewage runs through the market streets, floods peoples shoes, sometimes covers the places on the street where raw meat is subsequently stored uncovered, un wrapped, on the nasty street that yesterday had sewage on it. Not exactly the epitome of hygiene, and the death rate was on average for all of the affected across all of china was .4%. Maybe you don’t believe china’s reporting. I mean they are china after all. 

So lets look at the statistics without china. According to the cdc outside of china, including places like Africa, and the more remote areas of the middle east and india, on average about 34 people in a thousand. Or a little more than 3 people per hundred. 3% - including places like india. Right now there are only 100 cases in the usa out of the roughly 100,000 cases around the world. The mortality rate is low. The older you are the more risk this presents according to science. The highest risk category is for men over 80, where there is an 86% chance that you’re going to be just fine. 

Corona virus despite infecting over a hundred thousand folks as of Thursday, has only killed 3400 globally. Each year globally the flu kills between 350 and 650,000. 

Likewise, you and I, our parents, and kids and grand kids have all been exposed to corona virus before. Each and every person in this room, probably in the whole country shy of living in a bubble. Everyone has had a corona virus. You know how I know? Everyone has had a cold. One of the most common causes of the common cold is the human corona virus. This is different from the covid19 corona virus. But its related. 

So you’re more likely to live. Your probably not in the highest risk category, and most importantly our God is in control. 

Do you think God was surprised by the corona virus back in November? Certainly not. Our scripture says (26-31). 

IS God surprised that a bird needs to eat? Or that a flower needs petals? Is God surprised by any of that? Food here is a matter of health. Who ultimately is in control of all things? 

When you find yourself feeling fear, remind yourself of what God said to job. 

I want you all to open here with me. We will read it together. I’ll be in the ESV Translation.  Job 38:1-12

The back story here – Job is suffering, and his friends are giving him loads of bad advice. Finally God decides to speak, and I love what he says in vs 3. Brace yourself like a man. Or we might say today suck it up buttercup. You see among other things, one of Job’s friends says obviously God hates you, and that’s why you’re having problems, that’s why the illness and death and destruction has been visiting your family. From reading the rest of the book of Job we know that is not why Job was going through Hard times. 

So this is God’s response. Who can obscure God’s plan? No one. This gets glossed over sometimes, but God is omnipotent, that means all powerful. There is nothing that is so hard that God can’t do it. Atheists are fond of saying Can God make a rock so big he can’t pick it up? Which is a non-sense question. There is nothing so big that God cant pick it up. There is a pulsar – a type of star – out there that is so big that if we could travel at the speed of light, it would take us a thousand years just to circle it once in a space craft. Yet who hung the stars in the sky? God did. God placed a rock in the sky so big and so far away that we will likely never be able to get there, or even circle it once for the balance of human future. We serve a big and powerful God. Because God exists outside of our physical limitations, there is no rock that can be big enough that God can’t lift it. That’s not a limitation of God’s power to create, it’s a limitation of rocks, and the way they exist. Because God permeates our existence, but is also outside of and above and beyond the confines of existence as we know it. Is there an grain of sand so big that you can’t pick it up? Certainly not. Secondly this calls to mind God’s omniscience. First was God’s omnipotence, or all powerful, second is omniscience which is all knowing.  God knows everything that was and is and will be. Not only that, I believe he knows everything that could have been. I’m no molinist, but I’m not willing to say there is anything that God couldn’t know. HE’s omniscient. All knowing. 

There is a verse in psalms that says God knows the number of hairs on your head. Did you know that is a number that’s always changing? Everyone loses some hair, and many have new hairs coming up in their place. I read the number of hairs on your head could vary by as much as a thousand over the course of a single day. God knows enough about you to know at any given second h w much hair you have on your head. He knows your victories, and he knows your struggles. He knows your sin. You can hide your sin from your pastor, but you can’t hid your sin from your God. He’s omniscient all knowing. 

Finally he’s omnipresent. I looked up what the smallest unit of measurement was. Apparently in 1991 they needed something tiny, and so they invented the yocto. It’s a 1 24 places to the right of the decimal. So .0000000000000000000000001. to make it even smaller, you can have a yocto inch, or a yocto of a millimeter. There is not a yocto of any measurement in all of the vastness of our planet, or our solar system, or the milky way galaxy, or all of the universe that God doesn’t occupy. That planet that’s so far away we couldn’t reach it or circle it even once in the whole of humanities future, guess who exists on, and around, and between here and there? God does. We serve a big God. Not only is he big, but he’s powerful and knows everything. 

God continues to explain these things over the rest of the verses. Where were you when he laid the earths foundations. Where were you when he measured and determined the length and width and breadth of the earth? Where were you? You know if the earth weren’t places just right we’d heat up and die, or freeze and die. There is a narrow band where earth can survive, and we have been placed right in the middle of it. 

We can’t worry about, or even begin to comprehend all of the variables that go into life as we know it coming into and continuing to exist in the way that it does today. Any one of those variables that changes even a little and bam were gone. Yet we trust God for those thousands or hundreds of thousands or maybe even millions of things every day. We wake up not wondering if Gravity will change. Not wondering if a new black hole will draw us closer to the son today or further away and eradicating life on earth. We trust God for a million things. We can trust God about the Corona virus too. 

That said we’ve worked on a little bit of a plan. Common sense precautions to enact if someone in the church is diagnosed with corona virus. 

For one thing, prevention is about the best thing we can do. There are a couple of bottles of hand santizer here at the church, plenty of soap in the bathrooms. Wash wash wash those hands. its one of the ways you can love your neighbor. IF you get sick, they will to. So protect those you love by washing up regularly. Hugging right now increases your chance of getting the virus. Hand shakes can be washed off, hugs can’t. Because people can be sick for two weeks without knowing it, if you’re hugging everyone, like we always do, you’re increasing you chance of getting or giving the virus to another. 

Secondly, if anyone here contracts it, we will let everyone know they have been exposed. Dottie usually handles communications like that, but if she cant mom or I will send out a text to everyone we have numbers for. If you haven’t given us your phone number it might be a good time. 

Thirdly, if someone catches it, because of the two weeks of not having symptoms, we will have all been exposed and will need to be quarantined. So we will have church online for those two weeks. We have church online every week now. But if one of us catches this thing, we will meet online only for two Sundays, and resume after that. If you get sick and think it could be corona, you’re better off worshipping from home for two weeks. While the chance of death is low, most of us here and in our community are in the higher categories of risk. Especially if you are over 50, and have a heart or lung problem. So to prevent making sick anyone who might be more vulnerable, were going to worship online for two weeks after one of our number has been diagnosed as having corona virus. Unless I am to sick to do so, I will come here and preach. We can continue to have services this way, but we don’t have a way at this point to accept your tithes and offerings online. If we cancel church, we will let you know where to mail your checks to. Even if were meeting online, we still have rent, payroll, electrical, and other bills that will need to be met. 

Fourthly and most importantly is that you personally make peace with God before you meet him, and that starts with the gospel. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as our Lord and savior have no fear of what happens after death. We will be reunited with our loved ones, and in the presence of our savior. There is nothing better that we could ever hope or ask for than being in the presence of our savior. If we get sick, and the end comes for us, than we get promoted on to glory. 

If you don’t know Jesus, if you don’t have that personal relationship with him, then when you take that last breath, you would be spending eternity in heaven, and there is only one other alternative.
Make SURE you know where you’re going to go. 

Gospel.
