I read a story in highschool about a man who was born in Africa, and a neighboring African tribe attacked in the night, and kidnapped him, and all of the others in his tribe. They sold all the boys and girls, and men and women that they did not decide to keep for themselves. Ultimately the boy ended up in Europe, became a believer in Jesus Christ, and traveled back to Africa to tell them about what he had learned. 

Something very similar happens in our passage tonight neh 5. Now slavery in America and Europe was different than slavery in bible times. A biblical slave was basically forced servitude – but – they had standards that were enforced. They had to be fed, couldn’t be abused, could buy their freedom and so forth. Indeed it was easy to end up a slave back then as well. If you didn’t pay your bill, they could cause you to be their slave until your debt was paid. Aren’t we glad that doesn’t happen today? I know I am. 

To sum up the situation in brief. They had control of the city back but they didn’t necessarily own the lands around the city – certainly not enough to feed everyone. Not only that, but it was an all hands on deck, or wall in this case situation to secure their safety. So those who had fields, were spending their time on the wall, instead of tending the wheat, grapes, and oil crops. What developed as a result was two separate groups of people. Those who had food and resources – eg those who had slaves in reserve kept back from the wall to tend the fields, and those who were facing hunger in a few months because they had obeyed Nehemiah and put their focus on the wall. 

Those wealthy people who had food in reserve were making predatory loans to the people that didn’t. When those loans reached a certain threshold they were selling people, sometimes whole families to their enemies. At the same time Nehemiah is spending his money buying people back from their enemies. So it became a quick way to get paid. Dad sells David into slavery to the Persians, Gets his loan money back, and then Nehemiah purchases David back from the Persians at 40-50% over the amount they paid for David because they knew Nehemiah was a wealthy man, and he would do what he had to in order to bring his people back to Israel. Basically then the wealthy Israelites that were making these predatory loans were sort of cutting off their nose to spite their face. Probably if they had gone to Nehemiah he would have paid their debt rather than buy them back for a premium from their enemy and lose good workers in the mean time. So when all of these things that were going on came to light, Nehemiah gets angry. 

I don’t know about you guys, but sometimes I get angry too. Anyone else ever been angry? Of course we all have. We had a situation not too long ago where a guy we had known for a while made a mistake, and instead of owning up to it, he tried to cover it up, and even asked for extra money for the tasks he had been hired to complete. 

All of this went down on the day dad had his heart surgery. I wanted to be at the hospital with him, but we had this situation going on at home, so I stayed home to babysit, and ensure this person kept up their side of the deal. I’d love to tell you that his goading didn’t make me angry, that I sat there and handled it like Christ. But I can’t because I definitely lost my temper. I didn’t curse at the man. My message was simply you promised A, B, and C, and if you want to be paid for your work, you’ll do A, B, and C. Which of course the man DID NOT LIKE.
