So right off the Bat we see that Nehemiah has finished building the wall. Last time we heard from Sanballat and Tobiah the wall was only half built. All that Nehemiah has left to do is construct the gates. That’s when these two enemies of God hatch their plan. You’ll notice the timing was right at the last possible minute before the security of the city had been assured. Its much easier to conquer a city without gates than it is to conquer one with gates. But lets step back a minute and talk about Ono. 

Ono was a city in Judah that was actually kind of nice. Its name is synonymous in Hebrew with having enough wealth to nearly be sinful. Actually its more than that. The word ono is formed from two Hebrew words. The first one is pronounced like a wn. Wn by it self means trouble, deceit, wickedness and sorrow. The second root word in Ono is “on”which means to toil with vigor, wealth, sexual fertility and God’s creativity. Put together you end up with a word that means vigorous and wealthy to within one step of being wickedly idolatrous. Indeed the city had a certain reputation for sexual sin according to one commentator. One of my favorite preachers called it the world renowned “ono resort and conference center”. It was a place where wealthy people cavorted in luxury. Such wealth drew a lot of nairdowells. If one were going to try to gather an army one would want the political and financial ties that came from such an area, and one could do worse for army recruits than the footpads, and robbers that frequented the area. 

It struck me that the enemies of God, would try to draw Nehemiah to a place whose very name meant trouble. We don’t know how exactly that Nehemiah knew not to go to ono. Perhaps he had spies, or perhaps a revelation from God. Or perhaps he knew enough of the character of these two men to stay away. That whatever they were doing wouldn’t be good. There seemed to be three conclusions regarding these two mens motives for getting Nehemiah out of the city. First that while he was gone, they could sack the city, destroy the wall, and disperse the people there so that their own cities could continue to be the centers of commerce they had become since the fall of Jerusalem. Second, they suggest that Sanballat and Tobiahs plan was to murder Nehemiah, so that progress on the fortifications would stop, so they could sack the city, destroy the wall, and disperse the people, so they could continue to be the centers of commerce they had become since the fall of Jerusalem. Thirdly, they suggest a possible framing of Nehemiah. That while he was out of the city, hob nobbing with the rich and powerful, that Sanballat and Tobiah would have tried to start rumors that Nehemiah was only in Ono to raise support political and financial for a rebellion. So that progress on the wall would stop, so they could sack the city, destroy the wall, and disperse the people, so they could continue to be the centers of commerce they had become since the fall of Jerusalem. Whatever their plan, Praise the Lord their motive was clear to Nehemiah.

I thought about what I might have said or done in response to the four letters from these men. A city like that would need a good pastor. Maybe spend some time on the beach leading a bible study. Boy do they need it. What would you have said to an all expenses paid trip to the lap of luxury? That’s something that would be hard to say no to. We had a couple families go on a cruise last week. Cruises seem to be pretty high up the list of luxuries things to do. All of the ameneties of staying in a hotel, coupled with the cooking of scores of amazing chefs, multiple pools, shows, cinemas, parades, and pretty much any form of entertainment that exists. All at your finger tips, and usually all free. That by it self would be a hard thing to turn down. Especially after so much hard work, and overcoming so many obstacles to get this wall built. It would be easy to pat yourself on the back, and take off to celebrate another phase of the job well done. Afterall Nehemiah could have justified it by saying he deserved it. He worked hard. He did in 50 some days what they had been unable to do for decades. With every worker basically working with one arm tied behind their back as they had to keep hold of their weapons while they worked for fear of surprise attack.
Fortunately for them, He realized the intent behind the letters and responded appropriately. A friend of mine once said she had two spiritual gifts, sarcasm and putting her foot in her mouth. That wasn’t the case for Nehemiah however. He responds pretty well to the first four letters, he says “hey, this is a big job, and its not done yet. Why should I quit before the job is done?”. It’s a good response, its clear, to the point. He’s doesn’t say too much, neither does he say too little, he just puts it as succinctly as possible. His response reminds me of a guy I used to work with. His wife would text him 20 times a day “hey whatchya doing?”. He always responded “I’m workin”. Nehemiah doesn’t touch on the politics of the situation, he simply says hey “I’m workin”. 

Finally these two enemies of God decide its time to escalate their efforts against Nehemiah. Vs 5 – so they send him an open letter.

At this point in time, and even today, heads of state send letters in pouches, sometimes sealed, or tied with ribbons to prevent them from being read by anyone other than the intended recipient. So this “open letter” is an intentional slap in Nehemiahs face. Nehemiah is now the governor of Jerusalem. He’s as highly ranked as either of these two men. The only time one would send an open letter is if one were speaking to a subordinate with strict orders that you expected to be followed. Secondly they sent this open letter because this way the latest gossip would be spread around everywhere between where Sanballat and Tobiah sent it, and Jerusalem where Nehemiah would have received it. By sending this open letter, it allowed them to spread misinformation about the man all over the countryside. It was a smear campaign plain and simple. It would not surprise me if every where the messenger went, he nudged people, and said hey have you heard what the enemies of Persia are saying? Check this out!

I think I’ve told you guys I used to work for a survey company. One of the surveys we did was a political survey. One of the questions that sometimes came up was “assuming the following were true – if George W. Bush were an Axe murderer, would that make you more or less likely to vote for him. Invariably, respondents would say “oh my gosh, is that true?!” to which I was required to reply “assume it is yes”. They would then say something to the effect of they couldn’t vote for a man that was an axe murderer, and that they were really disappointed because they liked bush. I just can’t believe it. But I believe it. They’d say. It was a horrible job, and praise the Lord he didn’t keep me there forever. 

That’s basically what these two enemies of God are doing to Nehemiah. Look at the letter – vs 6-7. Everyone in the world that matters, we know that you are plotting against your friend the king of Persia. Come meet with us, and lets discuss it. 

If this had happened today, it would have been front page news on par with Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton. Remember how that dominated the news cycle? Or more recently, anything to do with Bill Cosby. Did he do it? Didn’t he? Is he a bad man, or is she in it for the money? Every news cycle has been talking about it especially during the trial. In the end, we may never know the truth. This would have been the situation with Nehemiah. Everyone shocked by the news that Nehemiah was allegedly starting a rebellion. All of this has the expected result on our hero. Vs 9 he prays and asks God to strengthen his hand. Why would a hand need strength? I think this is as close to a complaint or expression of weakness as Nehemiah would ever make. I think he has a right to be weary. Look at all he’s been through. Mockers trying to lower morale, having to hide from an enemy invasion, having to build a wall with one hand tied behind everyones back, had to deal with his people selling his people to other countries as slaves only to have to buy them back, more mockery, and now this. He’s being attacked in the three primary ways that our enemy attacks us. I didn’t think this up on my own, I borrowed it from a commentary by cyrill barber. Cyrill says the three ways in which we are attacked are tied to each of the three persons of the Trinity, God the father, God the son and God the holy Spirit. 

1. Father – sense of belonging – sons and daughters, princes and princesses. When we are being attacked by our enemy here, he tries to make us feel like we don’t belong. Like we are not a part of the family of God, or his church. Have you ever felt that way? This is especially common for new people to a church, or those who work the hardest at a church. You can be so busy doing things for God, that you neglect your relationship with God, or else with his church. For the new people, sometimes being new, we just don’t feel that connection yet with the other church members, and for the young believer, sometimes you just need to be told to spend time in the word of God. Spending time with the Lord is one of the best defenses against the dark arts of our enemy. When you’re spending time with the Lord, you feel connected to him and you do have a sense of belonging, like a parent with a child. When you’re spending time with his church, you feel connected to other believers that have or have had similar struggles, and can relate. We really do become a family. 

2. Son – value or worth. Loved us enough to die for us in a redemptive way. If you’ve ever felt worthless, then this was what was going on. Our enemy was attacking something you draw from your relationship with the Son. In my reading this week, I came across mt 10 which says And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. But rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your Father's will. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows" Of course that pulled my mind towards Mt 6:26 - “Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they?” Sparrows were the absolute cheapest meat available at the market. They cost something like a penny each. They are primarily food for the most destitute people because of that. Yet not a single one falls to the ground without God noticing. They don’t need to worry about clothes, or food. God takes care of all of that for them. Are we not more valuable than a bird? I read in luke where it says that you could buy three sparrows, and get a fourth for free, and Jesus said not one of them is forgotten by God. Not one! Not even a free one. But you are special. Not only are you worth more than some sparrow, but you were loved so much that God sent his son to die on the cross for you! A sparrow may cost a penny, but your soul cost God the life of his son. A life he willingly laid down for you, because he loved you. So anytime you start to feel worthless, and of no value, remind yourself of the Gospel. That God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son that who soever believeth in him shall not perish but have ever lasting life. Jn 3:16. If the king of kings and Lord of lords loved you enough to sacrifice his son on that old rugged cross so that you could become his son or daughter, then you must be pretty special to God. Special enough that he knows the number of hairs on your head! Did you know that number changes daily, hour by hour? New ones come up, old ones fall out. For some of us that would be a tall order, counting our hairs, for others its getting increasingly easier  . Maybe Dad has 100,000, but my biological grandfather had about 15 at the end of his life. 

3. Holy Spirit – empowered to live for Christ. Here is another pernicious trap. I know quite a few missionaries, and they frequently speak in terms that now make me think perhaps they are being attacked here. For instance – you hear them talking about how they sometimes make plans, and then ask God to bless the plan after the fact. Would it not be wiser to seek God’s will, and then attempt it with God, rather than attempting to do your own thing apart from God? Another thing I’ve heard them say is that they work hard doing things for God, but just imagine how much they could accomplish doing things with God. But do we not do the same thing? How often do we even neglect to pray about things before we do them? We treat God as an afterthought. When in truth God should be our first thought. How much easier things would be if we quit trying to do things in our own power, and rested instead upon the power of the holy spirit. This too is an area that afflicts quite commonly those that work the hardest at a church. 

If our enemy can’t make you bad, he will make you busy and keep you distracted from your relationship with the Lord God almighty. 

Finally as we close I want to leave you with a story. It’s a true story, from back in the 1800s. There was a young man that was just starting out into the ministry. He spoke at a revival in his home town on a Friday night and 5000 people turned out. Of those when he had finished speaking and gave his alter call, over a thousand people went forward to become believers in Jesus Christ. 

The following day, he went to visit his fathers farm, and his father had this mule driven machine. All exposed gears and cogs. It was a machine that shucked and shelled the corn. I did a google search on this machine, and it looked nasty. You toss an arm load of corn still in the husk, into the machine, and it strips the husk off, blows the dust off the corn, and rips every single kernel off of the cobb. Sends the cobb one direction to become animal feed, and the corn kernals in a separate direction. Any way, this 20 something boy tossed an armload of corn into the machine, and it caught him by the arm and mangled it badly. Due to the loss of blood, and the barbaric nature of medicine at the time, it quickly became apparent that he would be going home to see his heavenly father instead of preaching the revival that night. So as his son lay there dying, the boys father asked him what he wanted him to say that night. The dad said “son they are expecting to hear a message from you and instead I’m going to have to go out there and tell them that you’ve gone on to glory. What would you like me to say? 

The boy thought for a minute, gathering his strength he said “tell them to stand up for Jesus”. The boy passed away shortly there after, and that night his father told the story of what had happened to his son, and his son’s final words “stand up for Jesus”. 

In that crowd that night was a man named George Duffield Jr.. That name might not be familiar to you, but he wrote a hymn based on that young preachers final words. He wrote: 
Stand up, stand up for Jesus, the trumpet call obey;
Forth to the mighty conflict, in this His glorious day.
Ye that are brave now serve Him against unnumbered foes;
Let courage rise with danger, and strength to strength oppose.
Stand up, stand up for Jesus, stand in His strength alone;
The arm of flesh will fail you, ye dare not trust your own.
Put on the Gospel armor, each piece put on with prayer;
Where duty calls or danger, be never wanting there.
Stand up, stand up for Jesus, each soldier to his post,
Close up the broken column, and shout through all the host:
Make good the loss so heavy, in those that still remain,
And prove to all around you that death itself is gain.
Stand up, stand up for Jesus, the strife will not be long;
This day the noise of battle, the next the victor’s song.
To those who vanquish evil a crown of life shall be;
They with the King of Glory shall reign eternally.
My challenge to you today, is to stand up for Jesus. Nehemiah, though faced with a tremendous amount of firey darts from our enemy, was able to stand. Maybe you’re here tonight and you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you know for sure where you stand with our Lord. Tonight’s the night to know for sure where you’re going to go when you die! You can and should know that for sure. If you don’t know then as the praise team comes up to sing our final song, I’ll be over here to the side. Come talk to me and I’ll show you in the bible how you can know! Come stand up for Jesus. 

Communion

24 And when he had given thanks, he brake [it], and said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me.
25 After the same manner also [he took] the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink [it], in remembrance of me.
26 For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord's death till he come.
