We don't always get to see Gods direct answer to our prayers. But Nehemiah did this week. There are so many things to be in prayer about in our world today. You heard what happened in the UK, but did you hear what happened in Egypt? 53 christians were ambushed, 28 dead, 25 wounded. Also in the philipines a group began abducting Christians last night, and setting churches on fire! We need to be in prayer now more than ever. That said, lets look at what happened to Nehemiah, after his last prayer. Open with me to ch 2 of Nehemiah.

So first let me point out that this conversation is something that Nehemiah planned. We know that he spent days praying and weeping over his people. Before that he spent time planning for his prayer, searching scriptures for God's promises. After that he began planning his chat with the king, so that when he went before the king, he could have a cogent plan. When the tears stopped the planning started. He didn't just wake up one morning and say I think I'll build some walls today. He did his homework first. He had an idea of what was needed. His brother in law hannaniah was the man who told him about the ruin at the city. He had an idea of how long it would take, and what materials it would require, of what favors he would need not only from the king but from the neighboring kingdoms. He had this whole plan set out – even an estimate of the time it would take so that when he approached the king, he would be well prepared.

I think its clear from scripture that God is pretty orderly. There was a logical flow to his creation, he grouped like things together. The first three days are mirrored by the second three days. More than that even, do you realized that what God was able to do in 6 days, man kind has spent the last 6,000 years trying to explore and understand? In fact we haven't even really done a great job of exploring the planet we live on. Did you know 95% of the ocean remains unexplored, which means that roughly 36% of the planet has been explored, and the rest is still a mystery to us. That's just our home planet. There are 2500 stars that can be seen on a given night with the naked eye, each star has 1-100 planets of their own. But that's not all, if you had a telescope that was powerful enough to see every star in existence you would find out there are 10 trillion galaxies. So it goes hundred thousand, million, billion trillion right? So 10 trillion is 10,000,000,000,000 so 10 followed by 13 zeros. Each of those galaxies has 100,000,000,000 100 billion stars. Which means all together there are roughly 10 octillion 10 followed by 29 zeros, stars, each with 1-100 planets circling it. And in six thousands years we've barely scratched the surface on our own planet. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the earth the works of his hands. The heavens are God's foot stool. As you know from highschool things are in a perfect balance. If one of the giant planets were closer to us, we'd probably crash into it, and throw it off course, and the entire system would look like it had been flushed as we all crashed into the sun in the middle. Which could in turn affect the Kuyper belt – a system of up to 10,000 planets, and dwarf planets that the gravity of the sun, and all the other planets helps hold in place… Its like when you play pool, and you hit the cue ball, and 16 balls go bouncing around the table. Except on a cosmic scale. Imagine 10,000 planets loosed from the gravity of the sun acting like cue balls around the milky way! What a mess! That it all continues to work is a testament to the orderliness and planning of God.

So I think God honors planning and preparation, its something he models, and we should too. Even planning for a prayer is a wise thing to do.

I won't say who, but I know a little kid that walks up to you and says "Kenny, kenny, Kenny, Kenny, or mom mom mom mom mom, and when you answer her she goes "uhm…. Uhh.. I uh. Well I uh. And then she says the first thing that comes across her mind. No planning, nothing. Its just a bid for attention. Once in a while that's fine, a couple times a day gets annoying, but what if the only way an individual communicated with you was through those furtive spurts of nothingness? Don't we sometimes pray like that to God? I'm guilty of it too. When we are with and talking to our friends do we stand there and go "dear kurt, oh kurt we come before you kurt to ask you to help us kurt with our problems kurt. But how often do we pray like that? Like we don't know what to say next so in order to stretch it out and let our brain catch up we just drop God's name a few extra times. I think God appreciates real communication and sometimes that requires planning.

When you were dating your spouse, did you sit there and run through possible conversations you might have with her before you picked her up for a date? Try to think of witty things to say, and relevant things to talk about? Why do we do less for the creator God whose feet rest upon 10 octillion stars? Why do we spend less time preparing to talk to God than we would our friends, or our date? Have your ducks in a row when you pray. Know what you're going to say, so that your prayer is orderly, Pray like God is standing there with you, like you're talking to a friend.

Next I want to point out how God responded to Nehemiahs prayer. Look at vs8 And the king granted me what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me. We don't see angels heralding the arrival of the king. That was a thing that they did for royalty in Europe – ever seen the movie knights tale, its about a boy born into poverty, endentured to a knight that becomes one day a real night himself with the help of the king? Any time he entered into a tournament he had a guy with him named Chaucer that would go on and on in flowery terms about how wonderful his knight was. We don't see that kind of heraldry when God moves do we? There are very seldom flashing neon signs, or giant billboards that say "This was the work of God". But undoubtedly in this case it was God's hand at work. The King was not over fond of Jerusalem. We have their histories we know the things Artaxerxes did, and we know that he passed a number of measures that were pretty hostile towards Jerusalem leading up to this. The king transitioned from fire to ice. Things like that don't just happen. Nehemiah's speech well planned as it was, was not very flowery or designed to be persuasive. Because in truth God had already moved in the Kings heart. Not only that it just so happened the queen is present. That line stuck out to me, and so I had to look it up to try and find an explanation. There are all sorts of opinions about a lot of things, but most people came to the conclusion that the queen present was probably either Esther, or perhaps a daughter of esther. Ester you recall was the one that went before the king, and bravely proclaimed she was one of God's people, a people being persecuted. Her bravery, and the Lords hand won the king over at that point too, leading to the salvation of her people. That esther, though likely elderly at this point, was probably the queen mentioned. The king, would have been part Israelite as well – if esther was 100% Israelite, then her child would be half, or grand child a quarter. Her presence there would have been a firm reminder of all she had done. The things the king promises to do are huge. Could you imagine America committing billions to build a wall to protect Canada? Or Mexico? Promising the protection, the labor, the materials, and treaties with the surrounding nations? In any other circumstances it wouldn't make sense. But for the hand of God. So God doesn't announce himself in a splashy way – but he moves in the kings heart to move in a massive way in response to the prayers of Nehemiah.
It strikes me that just because we can't see a thing doesn't make it any less true. We can't see the wind, but we can see the effects of the wind. We can't see bacteria when it infects us, but we can experience the effects of that bacteria. We can't see a persons internal organs, or brain, or blood vessels without performing surgery, but we can know that people have these things… Well maybe not brains . But we can know people have things like lungs based upon the fact theya re still breathing, that they are pulling air into their bodies, that they haven't collapsed into a hallucinating mess and died a quick death of asphyxiation. The same is true for the movements of God. They aren't always readily identifiable. They aren't always in ways we would expect, they aren't always flashy and big like God has done in our passage tonight for Nehemiah. Often God moves by softening a heart. Or through the peaks and valleys of life. Let me tell you two similar stories, and then we will close in prayer.

Heard a story this week, a true story, about a woman living in Nicaragua. As a young woman she felt the Lord calling her into full time ministry. Not too many years later – she was 25 – when her life changed forever. She was on her way to work, at a vets office. When she was in a horrible car accident. She almost died. They rushed her to the hospital where they were able to keep her alive through a series of transfusions. She needed 12 qts of blood. A number of surgeries later, and months of recovery she was finally released. But what she didn't know was the very blood that gave her life, was also her death sentence. The blood she had been given was tainted with HIV Aids. At first she felt about like you would expect. Devastated, angry, she wanted to be a missionary and now she had aids and would surely die. Worse than that, in Nicaragua where she lived at the time they ordered everyone diagnosed with aids into a small colony walled off from civilization. There she was fed the dregs of the rest of civilization. If it was past its expiration date, they chucked it over the wall for them. The buildings inside were ramshackle. No one was allowed out, or had money to go out and purchase materials for repairs, or to re-paint. If any work was to be done, it was to be done by the people inside so shunned were they by society at large. About three years later, and 13 years ago a friend of mine took 20 teenagers to this small community and did small repairs, painting, brought some basic gardening tools, seeds and so on to help these people have a little better life. All the while, at every turn these people would ask 'why' why are you helping us, aren't you afraid for your life? Aren't you afraid you'll contract aids and die? My friend, having been trained in evangelism would instantly launch into a gospel presentation. We were all, like you, heading for death. We had a disease we could do nothing about. But God so loved us he sent his Son Jesus to die for us, and because of that our disease is cured, and we can spend eternity in heaven. Death no longer holds fear for us, because we will one day spend eternity with the God that loved us so much he sent his son to die for us. You can know him too!

Eventually my friend got to the womans house, and was helping to paint it with a bunch of teens. She never asked why. So before he left he asked her, why she hadn't asked?! She replied son, once upon a time I had been praying for God to make me a missionary for him. I wanted to go around the world telling people about Jesus. God heard my prayer, and answered it in a way I had never expected. He needed a missionary here to these people dying of aids. I was a little angry at first, but when I could finally see past the nose on my face, I realized that God had done just as I asked him. He sent me to a people that had no one else to share the gospel with them, and I've been here for years sharing the gospel.

God honored my aunts prayer as well. She wanted to be in the ministry, and she prayed for God to send her where the Gospel wasn't being preached. She ended up living in a halfway house in NY city for the mentally ill. We knew she was a believer in Christ, we knew she was living in this facility, but what we didn't know what the impact she had for the Lord on the people in her midst. We didn't know until after she had passed. Dad was going through her things and found letter after letter after letter thanking her for being their for them in their hour of need, thanking her for the godly advice, calling her their angel. What we didn't know until that point was she was not only sharing the gospel, but living the gospel for the people in this half way house that had no one else to share the gospel with them.

When she asked God to make her a missionary, I don't think she intended to develop a mental illness they couldn't name, much less treat in the 50s. But by the end of her life, I think she knew that God had appointed that place and that time for her to be a missionary to people who would have otherwise never had a chance to hear about Jesus. I mean honestly, how many of you have been to a place that specialized in taking care of the mentally ill, specifically to share the gospel with the lost people there? Most people probably wouldn't even think about such things, but God sees their state, and has compassion for them, and sent my aunt, and allowed this woman's car crash so that they could reach a people that the rest of the world had forgotten about. The Nicaraguan woman reached a point of equilibrium where she was accepting of the place God had sent her, so that she could be a witness to the Lost there. Dirty blood sent her there, but the blood of Christ freed her for eternity. Likewise with my aunt Judy. I think that when she graduated seminary, and was praying for God to send her to the mission field, if he had called her up on the phone and said "Judy, I found a group of people that need to hear about my son, no one else will go, will you? That Judy would have said "Here am I Lord send me".

God doesn't ask most people to go to these hard places. He doesn't send everyone to Iraq, or Afghanistan, or a half way house in upper east side of manhattan, or an aids colony in Nicaragua. Usually he just asks us to share his son with your neighbor, or your kids. To share Christ through your lifestyle. How obedient are you being to that command? And it is a command. A lot of times in training for different things, you shadow another employee right? When I started working for this company called Mars, they wanted me to sit behind another fellow and watch what he did all day, so that after a week or so I could reproduce it exactly. What if Jesus were shadowing you last week. Watching your interactions with others, observing your obedience to his commands. Do you think Christ would be pleased? Or do you have some work to do? Today is the day Christian, to commit to living right! To obedience to God.

Or maybe you're here tonight and you've never made that commitment to follow Christ. If that's the case, and you'd like to talk to me about this, then come talk to me as the praise team sings our last song, or come find me during dinner, or pull me aside after the service. Call me at three in the morning, I don't care its not a bother to tell someone the Good News of Jesus Christ.
So as the praise team comes up to sing, Christian, if you're not living in a way that pleases God, then heres the alter. Come make things right.

If you were to die tonight and were standing in front of the gates of heaven, and God asked you why he should let you into heaven, if you are unsure what to say him, come talk to me. Won't you come/
