We’ve worked our way back through the old testament, and we will be in Nehemiah again next week. So in light of that I wanted to do something a little different. Were going to be in Nehemiah this week. Chapter one, and were going to do a little bit of a word study, AND were going to look at a prayer that I prefer to the Prayer of Jabez. So if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have, open to Neh 1. Page _____ In the largeprint, and page _____ in the small print. 

While you are turning there, I want to remind you of the setting. Israel had been disobedient to God. Yet again they picked up idols and began worshiping, and God allowed them to be taken captive by their enemies. The wall was destroyed, the temple likewise was leveled, pillaged, ransacked. Anything of value stolen. Everything else desecrated and destroyed.
Any of you remember what it felt like on 9/11? 

I was sitting in greek class, getting ready to fail an important test. Someone came in and announced that a Cessna had struck the world trade center. The professor was like fine fine whatever, we have a test. So the student left. A few minutes later, he came back in and said it’s a passenger jet, we are under attack by terrorists, and the other tower was struck too. 

Do you remember how all that made you feel?

The shock, and fear, and outrage, the heartache for those who were waiting to hear about loved ones, or who had heard back that a loved one had died. Maybe they had been part of the rescue efforts, or maybe they were there doing business, or tourism. Maybe they worked in the pentagon, or were on their way to a vacation in some far off beautiful place, and yet found themselves inside the chosen weapon of our enemy. 

Maybe some of you knew some of the people who jumped out of the buildings to escape the heat and fire, or maybe one of the people that died in the aftermath. That one event seemed to have touched every family in our country. But 9/11 pales in comparison to what happened. Nebuchadnezzar as it turns out, according to jewish tradition was believed to be a distant descendant of Soloman, and the daughter of Pharoah. Remember how Soloman had tolerated some of the idols in the nations, and had set up temples to worship these pagan deities? Had facilitated his 700 and some wives worship of their pagan idols? Well, it seems One of his kids, adopted these idols, these sticks, and whose descendants would ultimately rule Babylon, Babylon, of course under Nebuchadnezzar would conquer Israel. King Neb was pretty vile – he was renown for his pedophilia, homosexuality, and would later in his life murder 600,000 Israelites who had followed Nebs command, and had bowed to worship Nebs Idol. 

Needless to say this man is not quite right in the head. Mass murder is not a thing done by normal sane people. So in addition to the destruction of the temple, the wall, and the forced slavery of tens of thousands, he was a mass murderer, and pedophile. It might have been a little like living during ww2 in a country hitler conquered. He would capture a country, and force its people, men and boys especially to be indoctrinated, and fight in the war effort. We are talking evil of the worst kind. 

It shattered Israel as a people. They needed to be shattered. Idols were rampant, sin was rampant. Ive explained about the worship of Baal before, I don’t need to get into the sexual sin that worship of baal entailed. It was awful. It was sinful, and repugnant to God. So God put an end to it. The book of Nehemiah would have taken place shortly after the temple had been rebuilt. The temple was allowed to be rebuilt after Nebuchadnezzar had an encounter with God that left him changed, and open to the one true God. This change continued even after Nebs death, and the Babylonian empire shifted into Persian hands. The way the Lord worked through his people in Babylon caused people to take notice. During the 70 years of captivity, the bible scholar John macarthur believes that there were more Babylonians worshiping God in Babylon than Israelites worshiping God in Israel. Despite hundreds of thousands of Israelites remaining in Israel. The ones that were taken into captivity, like Daniel, or Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego (also Known as Hannaniah, Mischial, and Azariah), or Nehemiah, and a host of others, realized really quickly that their sin as a nation had triggered their punishiment, and that the only thing that would sooth Gods wrath was a mass repentance, and returning to the Lord. So all this is going through Nehemiahs head when he pens our passage tonight. Chapter 1:3-11.

I love where Nehemiah’s heads at. Hes just been handed knews that his people are once again hurting. Hes devastated by this, and he immediate goes to the Lord. How often is that your response to trouble? How often when you find yourself discouraged and down. When it seems everything is against, is your default response to go to the Lord in prayer? Or are you more of a sulker? Sometimes we sulk because were not trusting in the Lord. We forget that its not in our hands, that its in the hands of a God who loves us. An all powerful supreme God that is able to carry us through anything we may possibly encounter in life. We all do it or have done it at some point. We KNOW it’s the hard way. We KNOW God is able. Yet we try and manage it on our own, plan for it on our own, try and keep all of these things within our control. But so much of life is outside of that. 

With the hurricane coming through this weekend, I couldn’t help but think of another hurricane we faced a number of years back. It was supposed to hit some family over on the east coast, so they hopped in their car, and drove over here to the west coast. Only for the storm to change directions and hit us directly. We lost power about ten minutes in, and they hopped in their car, and headed over to the east coast. They got out from under the storm part way across the state, got home, and unpacked, only to be hit by the storm once more. Despite our best preperations, and taking what may be the best courses of action, sometimes we still have to go through the storm. But in the midst of it we need to cling to our savior. We need to drop to our knees and pray. We need to spend time in his word. Because our savior loves us. 

I mentioned I wanted to do something a little different. Were going to do a little bit of a word study here. Someone read vs 5 of our passage again tonight. See where it says covenant and steadfast love? The Hebrew word for that is Chessed – hess said. I have Bible software, and it makes this process a lot easier. I can click the word, and bam – it shows me everywhere that word is used. How its translated and frequently there are notes as to why a given word was translated in that manner. One of the resources I can look words up in is one that many of you may have in your homes now. It’s a book called “strongs Concordence”. This guy named strong went along and numbered every word in the bible, Our word Chessed tonight is number 2617, and anytime Chessed is used in the bible, strongs number 2617 pops up. You can take that number, and open your strongs concordance and see what the word means. You don’t have to know Hebrew this way, you don’t have to know greek, you just have to find the strongs number. That’s all available online, or you can buy bibles with strongs numbers, or in my bible software, I can make it show up. Any way, once you have the number, you open up strongs, and look the number up like you might do with an English dictionary, except youre looking up a number. Depending on the version of strongs, you either get the definition, or a list of where the word is used, or How the word is used, or all three. My version lists all three. It says the word Chessed “translates as “mercy” 149 times, “kindness” 40 times, “lovingkindness” 30 times, “goodness” 12 times, “kindly” five times, “merciful” four times, “favour” three times, “good” once, “goodliness” once, “pity” once, “reproach” once, and “wicked thing” once.

Who can define “loving kindness for me?” I looked hesed up in other translations, and they use a variety of words there instead of loving kindness. NASB said Lovingkindness. ESV says steadfast love. RSV says “unwavering covenant loyalty”. King James says “mercy”. NIV says: “covenant of love”. I think the amplified is my favorite – surprisingly its pretty close to the KJV Amplified says “And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God, Who keeps covenant, loving-kindness, and mercy for those who love Him and keep His commandments”. Cant pick just one? Use them all! This word is so broad and deep – yet we gloss right over it. Using a word whose value we have dumped out. What does love even mean in todays world? I think people think love means sex, or warm fuzzy feelings. True love is someone sticking with you when youre hair is a mess, your breath stinks, and you’ve had a bad day and are being rude. Love isn’t the warm fuzzy feelings, its sticking things out once those things are gone. 

Gods love for us isn’t because we look nice, or smell nice. He calls us sheep – have you ever smelt a sheep? I’m not sure that’s a compliment. Gods love for us isn’t because he needs us, or has to have something we can offer. Gods love for us is inspite of our inability to bring anything to the table. 

What does Ephesians 2 say about us? It says we are dead in our trespasses and sins, dead stinking rotting corpses. It says were sons of disobedience, it says we are children of wrath. It says we are lusters after sin and evil. Apart from God what are we? What do we bring to the table? Jonathan Edwards said “the only thing we contribute to our salvation is the sin that makes it necessary”. That’s all we brought to the table. Yet God chose to Chessed us, to love us anyway. TO give us a covenant, to give us his loving kindness, to give us his unwavering loyalty. To give us his mercy. We have no goodness on our own, but God gives us his goodness, he treats us kindly, and with favor. All of that sentiment, its encapsulated in that one single little word hessed, translated into love. What do we deserve? But what did we get? If you have a pen or pencil, you should circle that word love – or however it was translated in your bible, because that is one of the most important old testament theological words. And before you freak out because I used a word like theology, theology is simply mans opinion about the word of God. A theologian then is someone who has an opinion about the word of God. Have you guys ever read any portion of the word of God? Show of hands here? Even one single page, or sentence, or bumper sticker, or football facepaint that had a scripture on it, have you ever read anything like that? Then YOU are a theologian. Even if you say “I don’t have an opinion” the lack of an opinion is still an opinion, and you’re still a theologian whether you want to be or not. So this word carries so much meaning and depth, we had to spend some time studying it. 

According to the Biblical languages scholar Alan Richardson, the closest word in the languages he knows (german, English, French, greek, Hebrew and Aramaic) is the greek word Charis – which we translate as grace. But even then, the meaning is so much bigger than grace. 

It strikes me though that chessed were a table, it would have four legs. First is this idea of God’s covenant love towards us. Second is God’s unmerited favor towards us. Third is God’s loyalty despite our disloyalty, and fourth is his infinite mercy.

Think about constant love. What does that mean? If we said his love is like an ocean, we’d be undervaluing it. There is a measurable limit to the ocean, but Gods love is infinite, and perfect. It keeps us accountable, and protects and supports us. He loves us so much he is willing to punish us when we need it. To make us go through difficult things to help us grow. He loves us so much he was willing to send his son to die for us. 

Likewise Think about what we have done to deserve his love. Absolutely nothing. Scripture talks about how we are wrotten to the core, and the only way we can even entertain the things of the Lord, the only hope we have for salvation starts AFTER he has begun to work in our hearts. He is working on us, while we are still actively attempting to reject him. Praise God he loves us so much, and that his love isn’t dependent upon us. 

Thirdly after we are saved he continues to love us even though we are still sinful in near infinite ways. Don’t raise your hand, but how many of you have done something this week that you know would displease God? I’d venture a guess that most of us have, and if you think you haven’t lets talk. This speaks to the loyalty of God. Every day we drop the ball some how, we miss the mark, we fall short of Gods standard for us. We excel at failing God. Yet he still chooses to be loyal too those of us who are believers in Jesus Christ. Even though he knew what screw ups we would be he still sent his son to die on the cross for us, to purchase us back from the evil one. 

In the words of the old hymn: 
How deep the fathers love for us, 
how vast beyond all measure 
that he would send his only son 
to make a wretch his treasure. 

How great the pain of searing loss, 
the father turns his face away. 
As wound which mar the chosen 
one bring many sons to glory.
Fourthly and finally, how would you feel towards someone that through their way of life killed your son or daughter, or your grandchild. Kurt how would you feel towards someone that took little Maddison, and beat her till there was no flesh left on her back, that mocked her, drove a crown of thorns into her brow, and then nailed her hands and feet to a cross, where they left her to die a slow death by suffocation. How would you feel towards that person? Greg how would you feel towards someone that did that to your son or daughter, or grandkid? John, what if it was Johnny that they beat with a cat of 9 tails till your son that you love was unrecognizeable. Then they publicly mocked him, naked, bleeding, and drove a crown of thorns onto his head. Then drove nails deep through his wrists and ankles? (bang podium). 

I don’t know about you, but I would be angry. Best case scenario, in my flesh, I wouldn’t kill the person, I’d just never talk to them again. 

But God in his infinite mercy, adopted us, and made us his sons and daughters. Gave us a home, a hope and a future. 

so when Nehemiah calls upon God, and reminds him of his Hessed, the full depth and breadth of God’s love, he’s invoking who God is in his prayer. 

I told the kids on Thursday night, that this brief little passage scholars think took Nehemiah 4 hours to pray. I think the length of his prayer is because of the depth of his prayer. He was calling on who God is, and all of the promises God has ever made mankind through who God is all as part of making his request. 

there is a practical note here too. I don’t know about you, but when I get down, its usually because I’ve been focusing on myself. When I can keep my focus on God and on Christ, all my troubles seem to melt away. You know what I mean? I imagine by the time Nehemiah had spent four hours praying about the attributes of God, invoking who God is and his promises to us, I bet Nehemiah had gone from weepy and worried, to courageous and confident. 

All that begins with the gospel though. It begins with a relationship with Christ. 

Announcements:

5th Sunday
New time for clubs – 5:30
Food pantry 10-12
Talking about a mid week bible study, if youre interested come talk to me. 
People have been asking about ways they can help, help john and I with the yard, talking about painting, website work, manage our social presence, work with kids, a man willing to teach a Sunday morning bible study? Passing out fliers for the 5th Sunday, making fliers for the 5th Sunday. Apprentice sound guy, david needs to be able to take vacations! The possibilities are endless.
