<!-- variant: from GitHub import -->
Open your bibles with me to Nehemiah ch 13 vs one if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. While you’re turning there, I want to talk to you about something that struck me while listening to another preacher on this passage tonight, that after the destruction of the temple the first leader of the Israelites took Israel out of Babylon, but couldn’t take Babylon out of the people. Ezra, likewise the second leader of the Israelites after the destruction of the temple returned to the people the word of God, but couldn’t make the people follow it, and finally Nehemiah – who comes at the very end of the recorded biblical history for Israel was able to secure the wall against outsiders who didn’t follow God, but that wall offered no protection against the insiders who were not following God. No protection against idolatry, against violating God’s precepts, and his commands through the Mosaic law. You’ve all heard the saying you can lead a horse to water, but you can’t …. What – someone tell me. Likewise it shed a new light on that passage where paul wrote in 1 cor 3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. Zerubabel led them out of Babylon, Ezra restored to them the word of God, Nehemiah helped build the wall, instituted worship, rebuilt them as a people with an identity, pointed them in the right direction regarding scripture, and corporate worship. But what happens as soon as he leaves town? 

Read vs 1-14

Were going to stop reading there – the rest of the chapter is largely talking about the ways in which Israel had returned to sin during Nehemiahs 10 year absence. It is most likely that Ezra died in Nehemiahs absence. Some of the sins they return to are some of the ones Ezra fought hard against as you can read in the book of Ezra. Any way, Nehemiah now in his seventies comes back to find a number of startling thigns. Firstly we have Tobiah moving into the temple. Remember tobiah? Who can tell me about tobiah? That’s right enemy of God. As soon as Nehemiah leaves, he moves right into the temple. Because his cousin is reffered to in the NIV as “the priest” but we know not only from the Hebrew, but from historians that that the cousin was not only a priest, but indeed was THE priest, the high priest. A lifetime appointment. Not only had he let the enemy of God set up camp in the Temple, but the nations tithe which were meant to support the levites as they served the Lord were being abused. Stolen by the officials of the city. Not only that, but they had forsaken the Sabbath. They were gathering grain, keeping markets open, crushing grapes in the winepress. That’s a difficult job, making wine. Kind of gross too. They filled a round vessel up with grapes, put some cheese cloth over a drain in the side, and then marched around in circles barefoot until all the grapes and been pressed into juice, the juice infected with a local strain of bacteria, then bottled, and left to age. 

Sanballat had managed to get his hooks into Israel as well. He married off one of his daughters to one of the sons of the high priest. Nehemiah’s position on this is clear – vs 29 says Remember them o my god because they have desecrated the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites. 

One author said that, inviting Tobiah to live in the Jewish temple was like inviting a possum to live in the chicken coup. Stephen Davey wrote that Sometimes that is how the enemy of God’s people works. Another author commented, Even to this day, Satan does not always fight churches, sometimes he joins them. Nehemiah reminds me of our Lord, who came into the temple cracking a whip. He ran all of the merchants extorting the people out of the temple property, turning over their tables and driving them out. Notice verses 8 and 9. And it was very displeasing to me, so I threw all of Tobiah’s household goods out of the room [suite]. Then I gave an order and they cleansed the rooms; and I returned there the utensils of the house of God with the grain offerings and the frankincense. Can you see Nehemiah? As soon as he sees what is happening, he throws out all of Tobiah’s clothes, his furniture, his razor, and his bathrobe. He hauls it all out and then, has the rooms ceremonially fumigated. One author commented that, Nehemiah didn’t even want the smell of Tobiah hanging around. 


Nehehmiahs reaction to all of these things was quick and severe. He confronted them. We don’t see any of the measured responses of his younger years. He doesn’t go to the Lord in prayer first, or take council with himself first. He confronts them first. He cursed some of them, vs 25 pulled out their hair and by the force of his fists forced them to take oaths that they would never again take wives or husbands from the ranks of the enemies of God that surrounded them. He spent –perhaps most of the rest of his days fighting to keep Israel pure, and holy as God would have them to be. Fighting to keep them from following solomans example in marrying foreign women and being led into their sin and idolatry. Fighting to keep the appropriate offerings and tithes in place. HE fought with everything HE had in him to pull Israel back to holiness. But ultimately who was all of that up to? 1 cor 3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. Zerubabel and Ezra Planted, Nehemiah watered, but who gives the growth? God gives the growth. 

The best Nehemiah, or Ezra, or Paul, or any man can do is enforce outward conformity. But Outward conformity to holiness is not the same as being holy. This is a common thought in certain religions around us that our thought life doesn’t matter, the evil things that go on in our heart,  that our sin nature doesn’t matter as long as we look good on the outside the inside doesn’t matter. 

That reminds me of a story, have you ever read the books from sea to shining sea or his other book the light and the glory? One of the stories told in that book is of all the gold some of the early citizens mined. They saved up and saved up and saved up Gold. Some of the people mined gold as their principal responsibility. They had finally mined enough gold to fill three large ships. So when the ships returned from Europe with their supplies, they loaded them full of Gold, anticipating a great payout when they reached Europe. Perhaps they could purchase their own ships, or any of a thousand things the fledgling colonies would have needed and been unable to produce at that point in time. So they shipped off all this Gold that they had spent too much time mining. The following year when the ships returned all they had earned for their efforts was two or three gold coins. You see while what they had been mining looked like Gold, when a goldsmith saw it, measured it, weighed it, and thoroughly checked it, what they had sent turned out not to be Gold at all, but was instead fools Gold. It may have conformed on the outside to the appearance of Gold, but on the inside where it mattered it was not Gold at all. In that way they had wasted the better part of two years effort producing something that was better served being tossed into the sea for all of the wealth it brought them. Likewise, holiness, an external conformity to holiness is not the same thing as being transformed by a relationship with the true and holy God. You can’t encounter God in truth and his perfect holiness and come away unchanged. 

Remember moses, he didn’t even fully see God, just the shadow of his glory, and moses face glowed for the rest of his life. We know most of each others testmonies here as well – Kenny Duffield encountered the Lord, and knew he needed to throw away the bottle. God freed him from alcoholism. We know Kurts story as well, the people he ran around with, the things he used to do, but look at how the Lord has worked in his life! The kurt from 15 years ago, would you have expected him to be sitting in church, lap full of little kids loving this kind, gentle giant of a man? When you truly encounter God, it leaves a mark. Relationship with God is transformational internally, and that does have an effect on your actions. 

Stephen Davey raised another point that is worth repeating. He points out that Nehemiah never lollygags when dealing with sin in the temple. As soon as he sees it he drives it off. He doesn’t even want the aroma of sin to persist. He fights it with every bit of his strength. Hitting, pulling hair, and so on. All the instant it becomes known.  Davey says that in accordance with 1 cor 3:16 we are the temple of God. And according to vs 16 your body is the temple of the holy spirit. I want you to ask yourself, how do you deal with Sin in your temple? Have you set up a room for the enemy of God in your heart? Something that doesn’t belong in the temple of God? Maybe Lust or Pride or dishonesty? 

I dealt with a situation one time, where a little girl pooped herself and lied about it. When stuff like that happens, its pretty apparent. There is the smell, and the wet pants, and well you get the idea. She was a mess. The same child looked me in the eye and lied about what she had done. No no no, I’m fine, nothing happened. I didn’t do anything like that. Ultimately I called on a woman to intercede with the child, and help her get cleaned up. But do we not do the same thing with God? I asked a moment ago about how you deal with the sin in your temple. God knows what sin is there. Maybe pride, or a hundred other things. But most peoples first inclination is going to be towards self justification. I’m not that bad. I don’t really have a sin problem. I don’t have any bad odors in my temple that need cleaned out. Maybe you really believe that. But God sees and knows the truth. We have all soiled our temple, and sometimes the smell of your sin is overwhelmingly bad. Nehemiah would go to war fighting with everything he has against that sin. What will you do about it?

So Nehemiah was able to secure the city from outsiders, but was unable to secure the city against the persistence of Sin. 

Secondly, he appointed the levites as gatekeeps on the Sabbath. It was clear that they were struggling too much with the temptation to buy and sell on their day of rest, so in order to help enforce it he added to the list of duties of the levites. They became gatekeepers. In fact the first couple times Nehemiah helped with that duty himself. He even threatens to punch their lights out in vs 20 and 21 if they don’t stop coming on their day of rest. 

It struck me that anyone in any kind of leadership position is a gatekeeper in a way. Parents especially are to help keep temptation away from their children. It can be a difficult job. I was reading an article a few months back about the childrens video game roblox. I guess its kind of like minecraft for those of you unfamiliar it’s a sandbox building game. You have blocks and you can build different things as you go. In any event this article went on to talk about a man that was arrested for lude and lascivious acts against a minor that he had met on this game. They think there may be more than one, they are investigating. He had developed a relationship with this kid online, and through clever use of technology discovered the kid lived in the same town, what school the kid went to, and his schedule. He had planned to kidnap the child, but thanks to the vigilance of the parents they caught on to this guy, and had the police show up instead. They caught this man red handed. The author of the article went on to say that she had posed as an 8 year old boy and within 20 minutes of playing this game online she had been sexually solicited several times, told to disrobe and lay down on this game bed, where the pervert proceeded to try and simulate sexual acts on someone he thought was a child. All on a simple childrens video game based on the wholesome concept of a simple sandbox. The threats to our kids are plentiful. One that was tolerated when I was growing up by the other children of my generation is now being embraced by the kids of this upcoming generation and that is the sin of homosexuality. When I was a kid, girls would kiss other girls to get the attention of a boy, or vice versa. no one thought anything was meant by it, most of us kind of rolled our eyes at it, and now some of these same people are having kids. I know of a kid whose mother was encouraging him to be gay. Another young girl I know her mother is actively trying to convince her to be a lesbian. A kid I grew up with, now, as an adult, has declared shes a lesbian and refuses to be friends with anyone who doesn’t accept the lie that Jesus wants her to be gay. Needless to say, she unfriended me. Scripture is completely against homosexuality not only in the old testament but also in the new. This idea that people are born that way, is pseudoscience. There was a conference in the last few decades that declared gay to be ok, and that people are born that way, and that its not a deviant behavior. Did you know that out of all of the attendents of this conference only two were not themselves gay, or the parent of someone who identified that way? Talk about the possum in the henhouse. But now its accepted as fact, and this gender ambiguity has led to people thinking there are 12billion genders. Let me tell you what, scripture says that God created them Male and Female. Have you ever seen God do something half way? He doesn’t. If God does something he does it right. He didn’t accidently create half men, or people without genders, or people with fluid genders, or men in womens bodies or women trapped in mans bodies. He did allow us the option to sin however, so when something goes sideways do you think its more likely to be God messing up, or more likely to be the result of the corrupting influence of Sin? Clearly sin! Scripture talks about in Romans that there is a clear downward spiral of things God gives you over to, with homosexuality being one of the last. God condemns homosexuality in both the old and new testaments. Would he condemn something he created? Certainly not. He condemns sin, he condemns concepts encouraged by our enemy to cause confusion, and pain. Any way.

Another vector of attack is through pornography. Focus on the family released an article saying that 90% of 8 year olds have been exposed to pornography on the internet. That 47% of grade school children with email receive pornographic spam in their inbox at least once weekly. Our children are under assault being exposed to things they need not be at younger and younger ages. Before they are equipped mentally and emotionally to understand what it is they are seeing they are having this sin pushed upon them. Its more important than ever to keep the lines of communication clear with our kids. Pornography is linked to poorer performance in school, to erectile dysfunction in adults, and is cited commonly as a cause for divorce. A little bit of protection now, can help save them loads of anguish down the line. Be their gatekeeper and keep an eye on their computer usage. Make sure they are able to stay innocent to these things that plague so many. 

But these are just the start. Imagine how much different your life would have been if you had been taught to avoid alcohol Kenny? or Kurt, if you’d been taught to follow Christ at a young age… what would your life have looked like? 

So make sure your temple is clean, be the gatekeeper for those in your care, and 

Thirdly, make a pearl. 

In a commentary on James by a man named Kent Hughes I read the following: Making Pearls 
Life on earth would not be worth much if every source of tribulation were removed. Yet 
most of us rebel against the things that irritate us, and count as heavy loss what ought to be 
rich gain. We are told that the oyster is wiser; then when an irritating object, like a 
bit of sand, gets under the mantle of his shell, he begins covering it with the most precious 
part of his being – and he fashions a pearl. The irritation that it was causing is stopped 
by encrusting it with the pearly formation. Imagine that – a pearl is simply a victory over 
tribulation. 

How  do we see Nehemiah responding to trouble. He’s getting up there in age. He could probably have justified laying down, and ignoring the trouble back in Jerusalem. He had his old job back. He was in the comfort of his own home. He was done with the political struggles, he was for all intents and purposes retired. 

I’ve known enough people that were close to retirement age to know that retirement is an alluring thing. It calls to people. Rest calls to people. They want to be able to set aside the stress and business that they have been committed to for so long. My dad for instance is coming up on his 40th anniversary with the company he works for. 160-180 hrs a month every month for approaching 500 months. Or some 80-90,000 hours of his life spent in service to anothers goals, and ambitions, and lining their pockets with money. Keeping their machines built, their wire coiled, their computers running even when they push him hard to do the opposite. He’s ready to take a break from that and focus on the things he’s ready to do. He wants to travel, and sing for the Lord, he wants to use the land he has to farm his own meat. He wants to work to expand the kingdom of God rather than the pockets of his employer. 

I expect Nehemiah probably felt similar. He put his life and ambitions aside to do anything and everything he could do to help his people. He quit his job, and moved to his foreign homeland. To put up with being mocked, insulted, and threatened by people from surrounding nations. He dealt with his broken people, trying to build them up as he built up the wall, to forge them back into God’s chosen people. He fought, and cursed, and even pulled hair to accomplish the plan God had for him in Israel with one hand tied behind their backs. He gave everything he had, and at the end of the book he finds out that his people have once more turned their backs on the Lord. 

At this point it would be easy for him to say he was tired and worn out, that he was done. It would be easy to pretend he didn’t get the letter, and feign ignorance. But that’s not who Nehemiah was. When he got word that things were going sideways, he traveled back to Israel, in his seventies, and went back to work doing the things he knew the Lord wanted him to do. 

If he was an oyster, the situation in Israel was a mouth full of sand and Nehemiah opened wide and took a bite. I mentioned last week that we know Israel returned to the Lord for a few generations after Nehemiah. We know that from historians because after the book of Nehemiah nothing else is recorded for a period of 400 years of silence from God. That silence is broken by the birth of Jesus Christ. 

One day, hopefully a long time from now, you’re going to be sitting there face to face with God the master goldsmith. Remember the fools gold story I told you about from colonial America? Any way, you’ll be sitting there face to face with God, and he’s going to look at you and he’s going to know whether you belong to Christ or not. He’s going to know whether you are made of Gold, or fools gold. Whether you’re name is written in the lambs book of life. Whetehr you have accepted his sons payment on the cross for your sins, or whether you have rejected Jesus. Failing to accept Jesus is rejecting him. 

When you’re standing there face to face with God. What kind of Gold will he see in you? Will he see a son or daughter, or will he see a lump of useless fools Gold? 

If you’ve never come to the point in your spiritual life where you’ve accepted Jesus payment for your sins, then the only thing he can see you as is fools Gold. No matter how Good you think you’ve been. The absolute best person in the world that does not have a relationship with Jesus Christ will be told depart from me I knew you not. 

So as the praise team sings, if you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve asked jesus to pay the price for your sins, then come talk to me. 