A friend of mine came across a book called “the annotated mother goose” which gives some of the backstories behind the famous childrens stories. Some were funny, some dark. I know you’ve all heard of “ring around the rosie”. This originates during the black death plague in the UK in the 1300s. Ring around the rosie is a reference to the red rash that children would get when they had contracted the disease. Pocket full of posie was a reference to their belief that the disease was caused by demons, and that if they would but fill their pockets with sweet smelling flowers (in contrast to the terrible stink of death that followed those who were ill) the demons would be driven off and not affect those that smelled good. In truth, good hygene would have made a significant difference. But not flowers in the pocket. They needed soap on their hands. But any way, each line of that old poem is a reference to one of the most deadly plagues that has ever afflicted the world. Bits of that old disease still pop up today from time to time. There was an E. Coli outbreak in Germany a few years back that had in its genetic code part of the y. pestis virus that triggered the black death. It’s a sad and haunting poem when you know the backstory. The final line is all fall down. A reference to the fact that everyone died. In fact there were an estimated 200 million deaths tied to the black death. 600+ years ago, that would have been a huge. Scientists estimate that there were only 350m people in 1300. Losing 200m of them would have been almost 60% of the worlds population. We recently past the 7.5 billionth birth, if the plague had hit today we would have lost around 4.25 bn people. 

Another story was that of humpty dumpty  you know the old rhyme: Humpty dumpty sat on a wall, humpty dumpty had a great fall, all the kings horses, and all the kings men couldn’t put humpty back together again. 

Think about that? What does an egg symbolize? New life? What about the king? The most powerful man on earth? It’s a lament that mankind has fallen, and nothing within the earthly power of man is able to put it back together. It’s a reference to the fall of adam. But its also a reflection of culture. I read an author a while back who said basically that our world specializes in producing broken people. He then quoted a teacher whom he’d asked about the single most important thing we can teach our kids to help them overcome this brokenness. The teacher said we just need to teach them to pull themselves up by their boot straps. Basically that we all have it within ourselves to fix our own brokenness. But what a farcical trap is that. We know that we cannot overcome the ravages of sin in our life without the power of Christ. Without the gospel. Without being saved by our Lord Jesus Christ. We are by definition not enough. All the kings horses… All the kings men. Its not enough. Only Christ is enough. 

Alright lets turn in our bibles to Nehemiah 1.
Read
Nehemiah was an average joe.
1:1 Nehemiah the son of hacaliah. The jews liked to put the information they felt was most important right at the start. They always wanted to know whose you are. So they list geanologies so they can show that they belong to someone important. I’m of David, or I’m of this scribe, or that pharasee. Remember Paul when he was saul was introduced that way. This is saul, follower of gamalial. Gamalial was an important man. It would be like being chosen by the president for something. I’m Ken, and Donald Trump picked me. But not Nehemiah. He’s the son of a nobody. He’s not the follower of anyone special. Hes just an average joe. Sone of someone who to our knowledge had never done anything special. Hacaliah’s name is not recorded inside of our outside of scripture anywhere other than here. If he hadn’t been father to a man that became remarkable we probably would have never heard his name. Nehemiah was the kings cup bearer. This was an important job. A cupbearer was to bring the king his drink at dinner. He would also take a sip of it ahead of his king. In this day and age poison was a key tool in assassinations. So if someone were trying to kill the king, compromising a cupbearer was a good way to do so. The job was a position of trust. It was a good job. The king would often pay them well enough that bribes wouldn’t be of interest. It is known from texts that survive that in Persia, and indeed King Artaxeres under whom Nehemiah served the cupbearers were also frequently in charge of overseeing the kings money. Sort of like accountants for the king. It was a position that would require a lot of integrity, and character. A position of trust.
vs 2 Hanani, one of my brothers, came with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile, and concerning Jerusalem
This is sort of like water cooler gossip. He knew that Jerusalem had been sacked. He had probably been taken as part of the sacking of Jerusalem. All of that had taken place maybe 140 years before. At this time Ezra was in charge of Jerusalem. Ezra had been in charge of the initial rebuilding of the walls. Ezra was a wealthy man, and some people say Ezra was the scribe that accumulated all the books that we now call the old testament. We don’t know that for sure, but it makes logical sense. Any way, so Nehemiah is asking about the progress Ezra has made on re-securing the city. The response he gets breaks Nehemiahs heart. 

vs 3: And they said to me, “The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire.”
So what we see is that the Israelites had been slowly but surely rebuilding. The temple had been rebuilt 70 years prior. Esther would have been queen within recent memory. You’ve heard of Aristotle, and plato? These two men helped shape the thinking of the world even still today in the realms of politics, philosophy, math, education, and Aristotle made contributions to almost every field man has studied. Many of which still stand today. This is when Democracy first gains a foothold in greek lands, and the persuit of God, and knowledge of God births philosophy, which later gives birth to science. Science stems from mans attempt to pursue God. 

Speaking of philosophers that lived in this age, one of my professors at Trinity once said in jest that the fullness of his knowledge of philosophy surrounded two philosophers that he had unfortunately caused his wife to know well. You rip a dees? And I mended dees. 

In any case this was heart breaking news. It would have been like living in Europe and hearing about 9/11. Remember how you felt that day? We came together as a nation that day, we mourned together. So many people turned towards God that day. Prayed that day. Opened their bibles that day. 

I remember I was getting ready for a greek midterm, and someone stuck their head in the class and said that a Cessna had crashed into the world trade center. The prof thanked him, and sent him out. We had a study group going, the prof was helping. Then someone else came in and announced that they were calling it a terror attack. Prof called for a TV, but the last cart had been taken to the cafeteria. We all walked out and watched as the pentagon was hit. The school president was standing beside me when we saw it. He announced that today was a day we need to be with our families, and dismissed classes. I remember the fear and uncertainty of what would come as I drove home. I heard the towers fell while driving and wept for those who lost loved ones. 

Its one of those days that is burned into your memory. Indelibly so. Some of you remember the day Kennedy was assassinated. I heard the speech given after pearl harbor where the president said that today was a day that would live in infamy. We all have been through these life altering moments, that burn their way into our memory. This was that day for Nehemiah. 

I mentioned earlier that the wisdom of the world tells humpty dumpty to put himself back together again. Pull your self up by your bootstraps they say. Fix your self. Self help is a huge industry. There is some worldly wisdom to be had there. But that advice is useless when it comes to the root cause of the problems of the world – namely original sin. 

You may have heard me talk about this before, but God originally created everything perfect. Scripture talks about lions lying down with lambs. There was no taint of sin. Everything was made perfect in the image of God. It was perfect like he is perfect. We had only one prohibition – just one – and like any child our forebearers made a B-Line and broke the rules forever introducing sin into the world. When Adam and Eve sinned the image of God in creation was shattered. We took what was a perfect reflection of God, and made it imperfect. Its like a mold, have you ever made anything using a mold? I had a ship mold for plaster of paris. You mix the plaster and the water together, and then pour it into the ship mold. Problem was the ship mold had an imperfection from the mold having been abused. So when the plaster was poured into the mold every ship made from it for ever after reflected that mar. Likewise because of Adams sin, we are all guilty of sin. If you’ve ever spent much time around kids, you know you don’t have to teach them for them to know how to sin. Kids don’t need to be taught what stealing is, or what disobedience is to take that cookie after they’ve been told not to. They don’t need to know what lying is for them to try and hide the fact they disobeyed and took a cookie they shouldn’t have. We are born with this innate defect, this way in which Adam broke the mold. Because this defect exists we can never hope to truly be fully free of sin on our own merits. This worldly wisdom then is bankrupt and ruinous. We like Humpty had a great fall. All the kings horses, and all the kings men could not put humpty dumpty together again. 

Nehemiah didn’t hold to worldly wisdom though, we didn’t read it tonight, we’ll be talking about it next week. But what Nehemiah did was drop to his knees to weep and pray. He knew he couldn’t do it in his own power, he knew he couldn’t rebuild the wall on his own. He knew even the nation of Israel was insufficient on its own. He knew he needed help so what did he do? The same thing we must. He dropped to his knees in prayer. This too is the only way for us to put humpty dumpty back together again. The only way for us to be made whole is to pray to God and ask him to make us whole again. Sin taints this world in every way. I’m sure Cerebral palsy wouldn’t exist if it weren’t for Adams original sin. Nor Cancer, nor Aids. Not mosquitos nor sandspurs, nor pain in childbirth if it weren’t for this original sin. Scripture says ALL have sinned, and that as a result we fall short of the minimum standard he set out for us to get into heaven with him one day. In heaven with God, things will once more be as they should have done.
Perhaps you feel as though you are humpty dumpty – you feel broken, and as though try as you might you cant put yourself together again. 

God is the answer through his son Jesus. If you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve been reconcilsed to God, where you’ve made peace with God, then come talk to me. 

Christian brothers and sisters – I want to ask you a question. When was the last time the broken state of the world has brought us to tears? Knox – that may seem a silly thing to weep over, especially for us men, but I assure you it is not. Nehemiah – a man – openly weapt for his city, for his nation. He fasted scholars believe for perhaps as long as a month. He went to battle from a place of submission. Likewise a famous reformer – a man named John Knox who lived in Scotland under the reign of the famous queen “bloody mary” so named for her murder of believers. The prayer of John Knox came from a place of sincerity. He openly weapt for the lost of Scotland. He had a habit of going into Mary’s garden and openly praying for Scotland, for queen mary, and would openly weep over the lost. Evangelism was the song of his heart. Mary later wrote that she could hear him pray, and his prayers frightened her more than anything else on earth. She recorded that one afternoon as he was outside her chamber window praying to God, that he had prayed “Lord give me Scotland lest I die”. He was so passionate about seeing the lost found! This wasn’t a prayer to amass power. He wanted to see broken things rebuilt, broken lives healed and restored, he wanted to see the lost found. Christian, when was the last time that you prayed like Nehemiah, like John Knox. For our country? No? how about our state? Our county? Our city? How about those just outside the walls of our church. Have we prayed Lord give us Bolton? These are things we ought to be doing. 

Folks there are prostitutes that hang out on our road men and women selling their bodies. These are lost, hurting, and broken people. There are muslims at the gates! 100 muslims within a mile of those two doors. Lost, dying, damned to hell. Can we not even pray for them? Can we not weep that they are going to spend an eternity in hell apart from having a relationship with Christ? 

As the praise team comes to sing, Christians I want you to think about this. God has planted us here for a reason. Can you at least commit to spending time daily praying for the lost in our midst? 

If you’re not yet a believer in Jesus Christ, if you haven’t made that commitment then I want you to ask your self this: IF you were to die today, and stand in front of the gates of heaven, and God were to walk up to you and ask “why should I let you into my heaven?”. What would you say? Because I was a good person? I’m sorry friend that’s not enough. Because I believe you exist. Scripture says even the demons believe and they tremble. Because on balance I’ve done more good than bad? Its not a cosmic scale – one sin cannot be outweighed by ten trillion good deeds. One sin however is enough to send you to hell. Scripture says for the wages of sin is death. But he’s got a free gift, so if you’ve never come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve asked jesus to be your savior, where you’ve made peace with God, while the praise team sings, come talk to me. Won’t you come?

Communion
We hold to an open communion at this church. What that means is you do not have to be a member to participate in communion. However scripture has some stern warnings that if you do not believe in Jesus Christ, and have not become a Christian, than it is not safe for you to participate. Scripture says you’re heaping judgement upon yourself. Likewise scripture says we need to examine ourselves before we partake. It says if you have something against another believer that you should stop what you’re doing and go make things right before you even think about taking communion. If scripture says that about our brothers and sister, how much more care should we take in examining our walk with the Lord?

Take a moment, and get right with God. When most people have looked back up we will proceed. 

Greg pray over the body
Curt over the cup

For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,  and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.”  For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.
Ushers could you please pass out the elements?

Close in prayer – Kenny Duffield, lary and judy. Will. For those who couldn’t be here. Sherrys health. The sick, and the food.
