#### If you’ve brought your bible this week, and I hope you have, please open with me to the new testament book of Romans. It is the sixth book of the new testament, after the gospels and acts. If you get to Corinthians, or the general electric power company – galatians, ephesians, philippians or colossians you’ve gone too far. While you’re turning there we will talk about our people group of the week. 

Nosu, Xiaoliangshan in China
Prior to 1949 the Xiaoliangshan Nosu practiced a system of slavery. "Even today, Xiaoliangshan Nosu society is a very complex system of castes, tribes and clans. In 1957 80% of the Nosu were slave owners. The remnants of these class tensions are still an undercurrent in Nosu society today." Of 549k Nosu there are only one tenth of 1% that have heard and responded to the gospel. Further complicating the situation, those few Xiaoliangshan Nosu believers are scattered over a widespread area. 

By and large, These people have little of the background needed to understand the Gospel message. So we need to pray that Han Chinese believers will be motivated to build relationships with the Nosu, to befriend them and carry the Gospel to them. Pray for the Xiaoliangshan Nosu believers to find each other and fellowship together. Pray they overcome any sense of class consciousness or inferiority. Pray they live a life of love, just as Christ loved them and gave himself up for them. Pray for the Lord to multiply the reception and influence of His Word among the Xiaoliangshan Nosu people, leading them to love Him with their whole being. Pray for them to increasingly be made aware of who the creator God truly is, and what He has done to provide forgiveness and an abundant life.
We talk each week about people groups with precious few believers, or no known beleivers and yet the scripture says in the psalms "All nations you have made will come and worship before you, O Lord, they will bring glory to your name." Psalm 86:9 So we know that each of these peoples will be there in heaven with us one day, worshiping God. Who will pray for the Nosu today?
This week were going to get back to working our way through the Baptist faith and message, we are up to article 4, which talks about salvation. Some people argue that these are steps. Step 1 leads to step 2 leads to step 3, others say these are all things that are accomplished in your heart concurrently at the moment of salvation. The first way of thinking in my opinion is dangerous because it is rooted in works based legalism. The idea being like that of a video game. If I get a little better, I’ll level up, and then more things are open to me. Let me say it this way, and see if you catch the problem. This is not what I believe, or what the church believes, but there are those that believe it. So Johnny works says “If I just work a little harder at regeneration, at regenerating my soul, and changing my own heart, and convicting my own soul of the wickedness of sin, if I just make myself move closer to God a little bit, then I’ll be able to work on my justification”. Does that sound right to anyone? If you’ve been here for a while you have heard me talk about related things. Things like “what does man contribute to his salvation” which is a question asked of the famous theologian and preacher Jonathan Edwards. Edwards responded by saying “the only thing man contributes to his salvation is the sin that makes it necessary. A verse that is supported over and over and over in scripture. Scripture says in 1 cor 2:14 that apart from the work of God in our hearts the things of the Lord are foolishness to mankind. In our natural state we go out of our way to reject God. We rebel against God. We seek after anything that is contrary to God. This is the result of the fall. We talked about the Fall in the past – in the garden Adam and Eve were created sinless and whole. Humans at that point were without sin. We were made to be part of the reflection of God in creation. We were only given one thing we absolutely couldn’t do and that was eat from one tree in the middle of the garden. But Eve and Adam both ate, both disobeyed, both doubted God, both rebelled against God and in so doing shattered the image of God we were meant to be. Apart from Christ we still reflect little bits here and there. Its like a mirror was shattered, and each of us was only left with a single shattered shard of mirror.

This rebellion, and the shattering of the reflection of the image of God resulted in sin entering into the world. Instead of being sinless and whole like we were created to be, we became damaged, and prone to sin. Ever notice that kids never have to be taught to sin? Little kids are born knowing how to lie, knowing that they might be able to get away with snagging an extra cookie from the cookie jar if moms not looking even if she told us not to take one. Because of Adams sin every single human being to exist after that was likewise born into sin.  Like any disobedient child the result of that is that we have earned a punishment for ourselves. Each of us because of our proclivity towards sin, because of our active rejection of God, because of our rebellion against God has based on our own merits earned separation from God for eternity. The grand sum total of mans efforts to reconnect with God, to reach God, to be good enough for God across all of human history have only earned for ourselves a punishment. 

I heard a story one time, true story about a little dog that was visiting my grandparents with its family a long time ago. It was some kind of little dog – a small poodle, or a pug, or a mini-something or other. It grew up in a landlocked state without access to a pool, and so became the only dog I’ve ever heard of that can’t swim. When my grandparents friends arrived they announced to everyone to be careful of the dog, and the water because the dog can’t swim. 

The first day went by without incident, and so did the second but by the heart of the weekend the thought that a dog couldn’t swim was getting to the kids and so they decided they needed to test that for themselves. So one of them called the dog over, picked it up, carried it over to the end of the dock and figured he would teach the dog to swim, or see for himself that it couldn’t. And dropped the dog into the water. 

Turned out the Dog really couldn’t swim. He didn’t even try. He didn’t even fill his lungs with enough air to float. He hit the water, and sank like a stone to bottom. 

So the story goes, the boy sat there watching the dog, on bottom, and the dog sat there on bottom watching the boy. No sense of self preservation, no effort to swim, or to get out of the water, not even to walk out of the canal on its own. It just sat there, and would have sat there till it drowned. Fortunately for the dog, the boy figured that out in time to jump in and save the dog whose life he imperiled. 

We are a lot like that little dog. Except that instead of being tossed into the water, we chose to willingly walk into it, and couldn’t figure out how to get out. So God had to rescue us like the boy rescued the dog. The water is sin. 

Pulling the dog out is salvation. We are a people that chose death. But Christ gives us life. Lets read our passage today in Romans 8 starting in vs 26. 

The word of God doesn’t pull any punches does it? Right out of the gate Paul calls us weak. Its true. He tells us we can’t even pray as we ought. If we total up all the things we can’t do – we can’t completely avoid sin. We cant in our own strength be interested in the things of God. We can’t save our self, we can’t maintain our own salvation, we can’t be good enough, or holy enough. We can’t earn our salvation. We can’t even pray right on our own. If you have been adding all those things up with me, you’ll realize we are pretty messed up and backwards from where God wants us to be. 

Any of you ever watch Americas Funniest Videos? My nieces and nephew love it, and so they watch it fairly frequently. I happened to be over there one day while they were watching it, and they showed this video of a set of twins. They showed the first twin eating spaghetti ever so carefully with a fork, face, and clothes, and hands still clean. This little one was eating spaghetti with more grace than many adults. Cleaner than many adults. I think we rather resembled the second twin apart from Christ who was sitting there in just a diaper absolutely covered head to toe in spaghetti sauce, noodles on his shoulder, and legs, and face and in his hair, with a fist full of noodles on its way to the vicinity of the mouth. He pressed the noodles against his face and looked puzzled, he squeezed the noodles till they broke, and fell in his lap while smearing the rest of them around his face looking for his mouth in confusion. 

Can any of you relate to being that second child? Maybe you raised that child? Apart from Christ that’s basically how we are. A hot mess. That second child didn’t have the required understanding of eating, and how his body worked to actually get the food into his mouth with any kind of consistency. He didn’t pay attention to the important things, and marched through the process of eating in the messiest way possible. Likewise apart from Christ doing a work in our hearts we approach life from the wrong directions, we have wrong priorities, wrong motives, we are confused about what really matters. We do as the kids cartoons say and follow our hearts, but that just leads us into more trouble – what does scripture say about our hearts? “The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick” (Jeremiah 17:9) Another place Jesus says ““out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander” (Matthew 15:19)”. There are a bunch more scriptures that say the same things. Following our heart is like following a broken compass. Our heart points towards evil. I read a book when I was a teenager about a ship that was lost at sea. This was before the days of GPS back when everyone relied upon a compass to get where they were going. In the story the villain put a magnet on the compass so that it wouldn’t point true. The ship was nearly lost until someone noticed the magnet affecting the compass. Once they removed the magnet, they were able to get back on course and make it to their destination weeks late, and out of food and water. 

That is salvation. Sin is a magnet on our hearts compass. Instead of pointing towards the things God loves, because of the magnet of sin our hearts point towards the things God hates. 

This is the problem. The solution came through Christ, his life, his death, his burial and resurrection for sins he didn’t commit satisfied God’s wrath for our sins. But what all happens in that moment when we first believe? Our passage tonight says we are predestined, conformed, adopted, called, justified and glorified. People tweak this list in a variety of ways. Some things get lumped together, other elements are sometimes split into their component parts. But the Baptist list is pretty much along the lines of our passage tonight. It lists five things. Repentence, Regeneration, Justification, Sanctification, and Glorification. Of the five the only thing that doesn’t start at the moment of salvation is glorification. Glorification is the promise of heaven. Spending the rest of eternity in heaven with our God and savior. 

Lets read what the BFM says: IV. Salvation
Salvation involves the redemption of the whole man, and is offered freely to all who accept Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour, who by His own blood obtained eternal redemption for the believer. In its broadest sense salvation includes regeneration, justification, sanctification, and glorification. There is no salvation apart from personal faith in Jesus Christ as Lord.
A. Regeneration, or the new birth, is a work of God's grace whereby believers become new creatures in Christ Jesus. It is a change of heart wrought by the Holy Spirit through conviction of sin, to which the sinner responds in repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Repentance and faith are inseparable experiences of grace.
Repentance is a genuine turning from sin toward God. Faith is the acceptance of Jesus Christ and commitment of the entire personality to Him as Lord and Saviour.
B. Justification is God's gracious and full acquittal upon principles of His righteousness of all sinners who repent and believe in Christ. Justification brings the believer unto a relationship of peace and favor with God.
C. Sanctification is the experience, beginning in regeneration, by which the believer is set apart to God's purposes, and is enabled to progress toward moral and spiritual maturity through the presence and power of the Holy Spirit dwelling in him. Growth in grace should continue throughout the regenerate person's life.
D. Glorification is the culmination of salvation and is the final blessed and abiding state of the redeemed.
Regeneration requires repentance. Repentance requires a work of the spirit in our lives. Paul would have called this being “conformed to the image of the Son”. Justification is the payment of our crimes. Want the theological words? “penal substitutionary atonement”. The words of the old hymn are a little simpler – we owed a debt we couldn’t pay, and he paid a debt he didn’t owe. He died and defeated sin and death and hell and satan so that we didn’t have to face those things, he defeated them for his glory, and we reap the benefits of these things. Because of justification we can have a relationship with our creator God. 

Sanctification starts at the moment of salvation but continues the rest of our lives. Those of you who have been saved for a while, you know how you kind of have a sense for other people? How You can tell a new believer from someone whose been saved and living for Christ for 75 years? That’s the result of Sanctification in their life. The more and longer someone lives for Christ, the more Christ like they become. 

There is more that we could say on this, and there are hundreds of books, and multiple lists of just what happens and in what order at the moment of salvation. The most important part is that God loved us enough to do any of this in the first place. Just like that messy little baby. In years past, I have heard preachers say “no one would throw away that baby just because he was messy” but that’s not true today. So I’ll say this, no loving parent would throw away their baby just for being messy. It takes a lot more than a mess of spaghetti to break that parent child relationship, and it takes more than being a mess to end up in hell. We are all a mess. Our compasses are broken, our hearts are deceitful, and as a result were like that little dog on the bottom of the canal underwater lost and confused. But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love for us sent his son to pay the price for our sins. 

Gospel.
