There are a number of us this year that have had a rough year. Leading up to midnight I saw dozens of posts, and have heard from a number of you that you're terribly glad the year is over. That you're ready to put 2016 behind you. Granted a few of you – like Christina for instance have had a great year. How many months sober Christina? A pair of good jobs, a car, your kids are blossoming. 2016 was way better than years past for you, but that hasn't been true of everyone. People have lost loved ones, or are dealing with the effects of terrible illnesses in the lives of your loved ones. A number of you have formed a club based around your common ladder injuries. Some of you are stuck in uncomfortable situations with no end in sight with no relief forthcoming, with no hint from God as to why he's allowing you to go through these situations. Our loved friends out of state have been in and out of the hospital. Even Jill, who has been here in Florida briefly spent a time in the hospital. Dalia has her health concerns that we keep on the prayer list week in and week out. Lois is always in our thoughts and prayers as well. For some of us, God has allowed a lot of struggle this year without necessarily telling us why he is allowing us to go through these things.

Maybe this is my flesh speaking but I think it would be easier to bear up under some of these things if we knew the whys. If God appeared to us and said "Bob I'm going to let your son develop leukemia. Its going to look bleak for a while, but I'm building the faith of someone whose going to watch him almost die, whose going to watch the gold of your faith placed in the refiners fire. Its going to be hard, and raw and painful. But you're going to be better off for it. Your wife is going to be better off for it. Your other children are going to see me move I a powerful way, oh and by the way, this is only going to last for a season and I'm going to heal him miraculously.

Or David Gerner – I'm going to keep you in a spot for a number of years where you have to learn to live by faith and not by sight. I'm going to teach you to depend on me, and not on your own two hands to meet your physical needs, and so I want you to work, but its not going to make you any money. There are going to be a constant stream of setbacks that cause you to ask a lot of hard questions, but there will be growth in the struggle. Oh and by the way, you've only got to stick it out for a few seasons and then when you've learned the lesson we'll move on to something else.

Or Christina, when they arrested you and took you to jail, you probably thought it was the worst possible thing. It feels horrible being separated from your kids, from your husband, from your parents and tossed in a cell, and later in a program where you barely had any time to see those you loved. When it all happened it probably felt like the worst thing in the world, and it might have seemed easier if God had appeared to you in a sober moment and said hey, you're going to go to jail. But its part of my plan to grow both you and Jeremy, your parents, and your children in deeper ways than you'll ever fully understand.

But that isn't how God works is it? I think I know why too. If we knew it was only had to struggle for a year and it was over, seeing the end, we could struggle through on our own. It would be like having the answers written down on a piece of paper when you get to your test. It makes the test meaningless. Taking away the struggle takes away the growth.

I don't know if you know this or not, but we see this played out in nature in a hundred ways. The process of a caterpillar becoming a butterfly for instance. This ugly old worm (us apart from Christ) is isolated inside a cocoon for a season. That's hard enough, but getting out is harder still. Many caterpillars die before they can escape their cocoon. But if you help them out of it, they will die for certain. The struggle invigorates butterfly. Helps it build muscles necessary for flight. Imagine being confined to bed for a time, and then suddenly needing to run a marathon. If there weren't a time of training you'd pull a muscle, or pass out from fatigue or outright give up. But with a time of training after you get out of bed, you can fly. The same is true for astronaughts. They leave our globe and fly into orbit where there is almost no gravity what so ever. By the time they return from a year in space it takes a solid month for them to be able to re-train those muscles lost while in space. Even human babies, going down the birth canal gives them a sort of massage that helps boost their organs. I'm sure the birth process is NOT easy for mother or Child. But its necessary.

And so are our struggles. When God allowed you to end up in going through the circumstances he allowed you to go through Christina, it may have felt like the end of the world. It may have felt like death warmed over, but what did God do with it? How many months clean are you now? You've been through the cocoon, and are becoming the butterfly as you grow in Christ.

So then if hardship if struggle, if trial is God working in and on and through us, what should our reaction be? Those of you who know your bibles know that there are lots of difficult things the people of scripture went through. Adam had to deal with the reality of letting God down for the very first time. To deal with tainting the entirty of mankind afterhim with sin. He brought it on himself no doubt. But his legacy forever after is one of being the anti-example. Moses was ostracized from both of his people, and then worse, he was put in charge of them for 40 years. David had to deal with his best friends father wanting him dead, then his own children among other things. The disciples lived in a time when being a follower of Christ was increasingly bad news. All of the disciples, including Paul ended up dead, be they crucified, right side up or upside down, mauled by lions or living out their days in exile on a prison island. Ultimately Christ experienced everything tragic a human being can experience, including the most gruesome death ever conceived of by human hands in addition to being scourged with a cat of 9 tails, beaten, and mocked. Anything we go through here in comfortable America is some what less than that.

So lets look at what Paul says in Phil 1:12-14 What has happened to paul? Shipwrecked, falsely imprisoned, snake bit, stoned, had to flee over a huge wall in a rickety basket. On and on and on. All these things. All the things we might say were Bad. All these things are doing what, they are helping to spread the Gospel. Not only are they giving a chance to preach the word to people who otherwise Paul wouldn't encountered. The prison officials, and their families for instance. But its lending bravery to those who otherwise would be shy about sharing their faith. By being faithful to the Lord in evangelism other people will see your example, know your fear, and be emboldened to share with their loved ones as well.

We watched the movie Insanity of God last week. All five of us. I think it his all of us in a similar way. It asked a deep and hard question "Is Jesus worth it". Is loving Christ worth watching your loved one die? Is loving Christ worth seeing your father beaten for his faith. Is Jesus worth losing a child for? Story after story after story where people said Yes to Jesus and no to comfort, to ease, and yes to following Christ even though they knew it would mean persecution for their faith.

I know I speak for myself sometimes, and for some of you sometimes when I say that there are times when I risk nothing to share the gospel. I won't go to jail. I won't lose the person as a friend. I won't be shot, my friends won't be hunted down and killed, and yet we sit here with our mouths closed not sharing the gospel.

Lets Jump straight to the final warning and then I want to do some play acting for a minute.

Jump down the page and start reading again in vs 27.

Let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is another verse that says and I'm paraphrasing here "if you're going to call your self by the name of Christ Should you not live like him?". What does that mean in practice. Lets jump straight to a hard one. Do you think Christ ever used profanity? Do you think he ever said the ancient equivalent of our modern curse words? Certainly not. Yet I've heard a number of you curse. I'm not saying this because I want you to act differently around me. If you succeed in fooling me, and still you have never been transformed by the gospel, then you've fooled no one and are damned to hell. So don't change just around me. Let it be a deep abiding change. Change because you want to live a life worthy of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Change because you want to reflect Jesus more clearly. To honor him more deeply as we go into the new year.

Over eating can be a thing too. Spending too much time on tv or other worldly persuits and no time with Christ is another area. How do you expect to live a life worthy of the gospel, when you spend 8hrs a day watching tv? Or reading books for fun, or any of a hundred things one might put ahead of Christ. Those things in excess are idolatry. If you are giving all your time to idols, instead of Christ, is that living a life worth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ?

I'm not saying you can't ever watch tv. I still occasionally watch tv. But if you're more excited about the final season of bones, or survivor, or some worthless football game, then maybe you need to talk to God and repent a bit. Maybe you should rethink how you're spending your time. Find your joy in Jesus. Find your happiness there. Because let me promise you something. This world will let you down. Drugs will let you down. People will let you down. Tv shows will let you down. Only Jesus can bring you lasting Joy.

Before we close Someone read vs 29 for me, real loud. That fourth or fifth word Granted in my ESV bible. In the greek it is "caristhomai". You know how we kind of bunch up words in english. Take two words and make one big word? I'm thinking compound words. But we do that with lots of things. You are becomes youre they are becomes they're. and so forth. In greek this is a fun word because Granted is two greek words together one that means freely given, and the other means joyously. Taken together Granted just falls flat. In fact I did a brief word study and the only other place where this word is used is in Corinthians when it talks about God giving us spiritual gifts. Let that sink in for a minute.

That means wisdom and being mocked for our faith are both gifts. Healing and being scourged by a cat of nine tails are both gifts. Prophecy and crucifixion are both gifts. So then how should we view these things that God lets us go through?

When you're truck breaks down and will cost you more money to fix than you have cash. It's a gift from God. Maybe you're there to share the gospel with someone that walks past. If you have a little tantrum or throw a fit, you might miss what God was trying to do because you were so self absorbed. If God breaks your truck for the gospel, God can fix your truck for the gospel too. Maybe you fell off a ladder and hurt your self. Maybe that was so you could tell a nurse, or a doctor about Jesus. Maybe it was meant to slow you down so you would have a chance encounter with someone as a result of your injury that leads to the sharing of the gospel. Did you find your gospel appointment? Or were you so focused on your self that you missed it. I'd like to say I never miss such things, and that I'm never so focused on my self that I miss what God is doing. But if I said that I'd not only be an arrogant fool, but a liar as well.

So lets close with this. As we go into this new year, as you're thinking about resolutions, resolve to live a life that is worth of the Gospel. Resolve to bring glory to God in the midst of the ashes of life. Resolve to make much of God, and little of your self.

Were going to close in prayer, and then I want to spend about ten or fifteen minutes doing some evangelism training. I'll teach you my method. There are other good methods out there. There are lots of great tracts. These Gospels of john from the pocket testament league are nice. Lifeway sells marked new testaments that even tell you what page to turn to.

(pray).

Ok so what I want to do is put my dad on the spot for a minute. Come on up here. I'm going to pretend I Just met you on the street and am going to share the gospel with you. The list of verses I use I have on this print out, and I can make copies on our new copy machine (thank you David).

I'm walking down the street, and I've just seen you for the first time. (gospel presentation).

Now I'd like for us to split up into groups. I didn't warn them about this, but I know my dad, pastor Bob, and Kenny Duffield are prepared to give an account for their faith, so lets split into a couple of groups and run through it again, maybe some of you would be willing to try in the safety of the church to share the gospel with one of us. Bob, dad and Kenny feel free to use your own presentation style, don't feel like you have to use mine though I think there will be a good deal of overlap. Then when everyones had a chance that wants one, lets close in prayer again, and we will go eat.
