First of all I want to say thank you for allowing me to go see my nieces for Lily’s birthday this past week. Its been a hard summer for the kids, and for us. It was important to me that she knew I cared enough to make sure I was there for her birthday. I know that meant things were different here last week, Dottie and willie sang some worship songs, and because of a technical issue we couldn’t go live last week, but we have a video of that, that will be going up this week. So those of you on facebook saw a message from may the 3rd. But were all back today, and live on facebook. We had a great time. We went to north east north Carolina and picked the girls up, and then went west into the mountains. Did a fair bit of hiking, walked over the mile high bridge on grandfather mountain, saw a beautiful double water fall at Linville falls, and most importantly, got to love on my nieces a little bit. If you think about them, keep them in your prayers often. They have a hard path right now. 

Alright, our scripture today will be in psalms 14, and while you’re turning there lets talk about our people group of the week. The Tamil of Sri Lanka. They are mainly businessmen and industrial workers. Some are in white-collar jobs and some are engaged in embroidery work. Their relation with the other Tamil caste groups and the Hindu communities is cordial. Some members of the community are descendants of Tamil women and Arab traders. There are over a million Tamil, and to our knowledge every single tamil is a muslim, with no followers of Jesus Christ. Remember, in a mulsim country To follow Jesus is to risk much that is important in life. Family, friends, and status are at risk, along with their very lives in some instances.  Pray for the Lord to raise up a strong disciple making movement to saturate the hearts and minds of this people group.

Alright lets read the book, and then talk to the author: Psalms 14:1-end
Pray. 

Right off the bat, I had to look something up. I can’t tell you how many times Ive heard this first verse tossed around as a bludgeon against the atheist. Oh you don’t believe in God, well the bible calls you a fool. But the word for fool here in the Hebrew Is bigger and wider than that. The Hebrew word is Na-vahl. According to brown driver and briggs Hebrew dictionary, the word carries with it other meanings than just “fool”. Sure it means fool. But it also means morally, and intellectually bankrupt, senseless, ignoble, disgraceful, and lacking perspective on ethical and religious claims. While those things when missing cause one to act foolishly, one is there because they lack perspective. What caused the lack of perspective? Anyone? That’s right, the fall did. God had made creation a perfect reflection of himself and his glory. But Adam and eve took a hammer to that mirror of creation and shattered it. We all still share in that reflection a bit. We all still have a broken shard of that reflection, but mankind as a result of the fall no longer properly reflects God as we were originally designed to do. Even we Christians can be a poor reflection of God – I’ve seen some of your posts on facebook. Some of the people on my friends list are more upset about having to wear a mask, or others that aren’t wearing masks like they should, than they are about the murder of babies. More upset about masks than lost people spending eternity in Hell. This is part of the effects of the fall. Our minds and hearts are twisted. Sin twists us to desire things that are less important. That is to say sin makes us desire fools gold, instead of real 24 carat gold. I was talking to a friend of mine, he has been saving for a year to buy a very specific watch. It had allegedly been worn by buz aldrin to the moon. It looked right, the price was fantastic, and so he bought it. Took it to a dealer for that particular kind of watch and found out it was fake. Turns out it was a really close fake. There was one single marking on the back that differentiated the real one from a 10$ Chinese fake. Where the real one had rubies as bearings, the fake one had lesser stones, where the real one had gears made of stainless steel, the fake one was made of only steal. Where the real one had a few pieces made from solid 24 carat gold, the fake one was made of pyrite – fools gold. Tens of thousands of dollars gone. Spent on something less than. Something fools gold. Something bankrupt, whose existence is disgraceful! My friend payed with paypal, and they recovered his money. But the time we spend on these lesser things can’t be recovered. I’m fairly easily sidetracked, especially when it comes to learning something. For instance I spent a good hour researching whether pyrite – fools gold – could be used in an alloy to make something new. Turns out the answer is sorta, but not directly. Pyrite in the forge produces magnetite, a super brittle form of mineral iron, that wants to be a powder. That powder then can be mixed in with other metals. But our time can’t be so easily recovered. When we spend time fighting for pyrite, and over pyrite, we lose out on the best things we could be spending our time on. 

We desire these lesser things because of the effects of sin. At the moment of salvation, sin is forgiven, but its effects are still present. The scars are still there for most of us. 

When I was a kid, I was using a dull knife to carve on a piece of wood. I think the goal was to make a toothpick end on a great big stick. Any way, dull knives require a lot of force, the stick broke, and the dull knife plus all the force was enough to cut one of my fingers clear to the bone. 

Convinced I would have my knife taken away if my parents knew, I mopped up the blood, and made a butterfly suture for my finger. It healed… but it never healed quite right. To this day I have a scar across two of the three cut fingers, and a place where the healing didn’t happen quite right, the lingering effects of sin are like this. Were forgiven for the infraction, but the scars, the evidence of our sin remain. Like this scar on my finger. 

The result is our desires are situationally foolish. We desire the things that are less good, in exchange for the things that are truly good. This is why we spend so much time wathing tv, or persuing things that don’t really matter. Or in my case this week, the hours spent watching people try to smelt pyrite into something useful on youtube. When you’re stirred up for a thing, a cause, a mask, ask yourself, does this issue line up with God’s priorities. 

I was talking with a friend of mine this week, someone I went to school with, and she was up in arms about our rights as americans. She wasn’t wrong. Her complaint about American liberties being eroded in this one particular area wasn’t wrong. They are being chipped away at. 

There was a similar situation Paul was faced with in the New Testament.  Christians were being rounded up, and executed, rounded up and forced to fight to the death in the coloseum, Christians were being impaled alive on poles, dipped in oil and set on fire to light the streets of rome. Yet I challenge you one time to find Paul condemning the erosion of his liberties? Show me one place where Paul recommends we stand up for our God given rights? Show me where civil disobedience is commended by paul to stop the torture of innocent Christians? Where does Paul get indignant over his rights? Where did Jesus speak out for his rights? Show me!?

Instead what do we have – Paul demanding we respect our authorities, give to ceasar what is ceasar and to God what is God’s Jesus said. Shortly there after Jesus walked meekly to the cross, where he was executed for a fake crime, and paid the price for sins he didn’t commit. Where was the church then demanding we stand up for our rights? Where was the church crying out that Jesus had rights! It didn’t happen. If it did happen scripture doesn’t record it, because God isn’t as concerned with our rights as he is with our souls. 

Our country – our church today has an issue of priorities. I didn’t start out to write a sermon about this, but that’s sort of where we have ended up. The church in America today is more concerned about politics and the government than we are about lost sinners burning in hell. Were outraged over masks, and the freedoms that I deserve, and forget about our lost friends and neighbors, and family members who are heading straight for an eternity apart from God. Whats more important, whether our sons and daughters burn in hell? Or a mask. Our loved ones perishing, or who wins the presidency? 

I saw a video that had gone viral this week. A little child falls off the platform onto a train track, maybe a subway track. In the near distance you can see the headlight of a train moments from reaching the platform. At greak risk to himself, a man jumps down, picks up the toddler, pushes her back onto the platform, and scrambles back out himself. What a hero! I feel like most of us deep down like to think we would do the same if we were able. Am I right? Show of hands, if you were able, would you jump down and try to save your child from being hit by the train? If yes put your hand up. Put your hands down. and yet who of you have shared the gospel with someone this week? 

Verse 2-4, scripture talks about this over and over. People sometimes get upset by this idea. This elevation of freedom in our hearts and minds sometimes makes people think that their freedom is a moral right – it isn’t. IF we were left to our own devices we would choose sin only, all the time. Even if we as a result of God’s common grace, chose to do something that benefitted mankind, it would have been done with false motives, and executed with sin in our hearts, motivated by sin, for the benefit of our own pet sin. Is there any who understand? Any who seek God the psalmist asks? No. 

Eph 2 says we are dead in our trespasses and sins, that we are by nature children of wrath. Isaiah and genesis says we desire evil only and always with our whole heart. John Calvin wrote that our hearts are a factory of idols. Going on to say that these idols are what our hearts desire if left to our own devices. We are by nature children of wrath. 

IF romans 6:23 could be summarized it could be summarized to say this, that we have spent our whole life sinning, and we’ve earned something. We have earned death. That is what we deserve. Not freedom. We don’t deserve to be given choices, because our choices aren’t for the better. 

We deep down in our hearts, apart from Christ, desire the fools gold, not the real gold. We desire the corruptible, instead of the incorruptible. 

I once heard someone say God is a gentleman and he will never over ride your free will. My response to that is Praise God he over came my free will, because otherwise I’d be heading on a path to hell right now. The Israelites were glad when God overrode pharaohs free will, Paul was glad when on that Damascus road His own free will was overcome by God. He was struck blind. He was ripped out of his current way of life – acts 9 says before this he was breathing threats and murder against the followers of Christ. Think Paul chose to have his eye sight taken away? Think Paul would have chose to stop killing Christians, and start following Christ on his own? Thank God that he has power over my will and yours. He can change the desires of our heart. We know this deep down or we would never pray for God to do a work in someones life, to draw them to God, we would never pray for God to take away addiction if we didn’t believe it was possible. 

Thank God he is able. 

One more story about this, and we will close. There was a man we all knew, a number of years ago who struggled with Alcohol. That man was named Kenny Duffield. He’s told this story to the church, so I feel comfortable repeating it to the church. Kenny was an alcoholic. He would get up and drink, and fill his thermos with liquor and drink, and come home from work and drink some more. This was his way of life. 

One day a man prayed for him, that God would take away his thirst for liquor. That God would make liquor taste like lighter fluid. Kenny laughed it off, but when he got home, he took a drink, and it tasted like lighter fluid. He knew in that moment that God was real, and he poured out every bit of liquor he had. thank God that He can over come our free will. 

The moment we are saved, those sins are forgiven. But the scars remain, and that’s what this pandemic is bumping into. The sin of idolatry of desiring our own freedom over God is forgiven, but we still have the scars. This is why christians get outraged over masks, or over their tools being stolen, or their “rights violated”. Because they have allowed their own sense of self, and their own priorities to have been elevated in their heart above those of Jesus Christ. 

But God is able to draw us back to his priorities. Let me ask you this, what do you think God’s priorities are? I had a professor that would state it a lot more formally. But in short, God’s priorities for us are summed up in the great commission – we are to be sharing the gospel, and making disciples. The rest is up to him to manage, as he did for Paul, when Nero was using Christians to light the streets of rome. The big picture is in God’s hands. We can rest in that. Scripture says in psalms 21:1 “The king’s heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD; he turns it wherever he will.”. should we vote? Yes, always. But when politics becomes our idol were wrong. 

Heres a quick check to see where your heart is: raise your hand if you’ve had a political conversation, or debate, or argument online or in person this week. Don’t raise your hand, but ask your self, could you say the same about sharing the gospel? Which have you done more of this week? 

For those of you that don’t know the Lord, this all starts with a  relationship with God. 
Gospel.
