Father we lift up all those in Houston and beyond that are struggling in the midst of this storm. We ask that you would use it to draw many people to you, and to help us to remember that in heaven there will be no hurricanes, no earth quakes, no tornados or other natural disasters ripping the world apart. Give us a longing for the new heaven and earth where there will be no blowing storms, or drowning floods, or quaking earths. Help us to not love this world so well, and to love our savior more deeply, even in the midst of the storms of life. 

It struck me this week that our world is in serious need of a shepherd. Were going to be looking at Psalm 23 tonight, while you’re turning there I wanted to talk about somethings. 

For starters I talked to the Clarks, they will be back in town soon, and are looking forward to seeing all of us again. Consider yourselves hugged. They actually saw something pretty sad – a terrible accident, a car went off the road, and crashed into something concrete and exploded. There have been so many things this week that have been going on in the world, drunk drivers caught, deputies hit by a car, families hurting and broken. All of the people suffering from the hurricane.  Churches full of people hurting in a world full of the Lost and dying who will spend an eternity in Hell. This world needs the good shepherd desperately. 

lets talk to the author, and then lets read the text. 

Right off the bat, vs 1 – I shall not want. I did a bit of a word study on that Hebrew word. Its only used twice. Once in the old testament, and once in a Hebrew translation of the new testament that I have. Nelsons Bible dictionary says that the type of want in question has to do with hastiness, greed, sloth and debauchery. That yielding to those things, instead of to God are the ultimate source of “want” in our life. 

Hastiness stands out on that list. That tends to be a young mans sin, but I’ve known old men who were hasty as well… Hastiness is often confused for having faith. I spoke to someone once who was considering buying a building. He had 300$ a month extra in the budget, no plan for the building, and committed himself to paying 500$ a month for the building. He argued that it was stepping out in faith. That he was trying to honor God. But I argue unless God is specifically telling you to do something like that, then you’re acting in haste, you’re being hasty. Ultimately, he ended up losing the building. Its true that God own the cattle on a thousand hills, and If he wanted that man to have that building he’d only need to sell the cattle off one of them. But at the same time, without a plan for the building, what was his purpose in the purchase? Trying to expand what he owns? Trying to invest? Perhaps. But God usually asks people to do things that expand the kingdom – not our wallets – though sometimes he does choose to bless financially. I met a man last year at a gas station. He was on his way to church. He happened to be in  a gas station that I frequent and have come to know some of the employees at. They happen to be hindu and muslim. So this man comes up behind me as I’m paying for my gas, and slams his red bull down on the table. He announces he’s running late for church and demands he go to the head of the line. I was willing to let him in, but the cashier told him he must wait his turn. So the man said fine, I’m taking this drink, and I’ll probably be back to pay for it at some point, and then he stormed off. The cashier is a generally jovial fellow, and we’ve had a couple of talks about the Lord. But he got really angry. He said back home people on their way to the temple wouldn’t behave that way. His face was red, and he was quite angry. I insisted that I should pay for it. Because Christians shouldn’t behave that way. In his hasty treatment of the man behind the counter, how do you think that shaped the mans thinking about Christians? Haste has an effect not only on you, but on your witness to the world around you. When you are hasty while driving, and cut someone off, or tailgate with your Jesus fish on the car. Do you think that makes it easier or harder for you to tell that person you were rude to about Christ? 

The opposite of hastiness is the man who had a horse. Have you ever heard that story? 

Second was Greed. I think often greed and haste going hand in hand. One leeds to the other. I saw a few minutes of a movie the other day about an American man traveling across Europe by cheating people out of their money. Most of the time, he would get them thinking about the possible rewards, and that would loosen their hold on their wallet, and before you know it he had milked them dry. They could taste all the rich foods they would buy with that money. They could feel the water of the pool they would soon own. They could smell the sea from the water front property they would buy if only they would invest with this guy. Ultimately though, Greed leads to haste, and haste leads to what? To ruin. 

Third was Sloth. Some people think sloth is the opposite of haste. If doing something in haste is doing something quickly without fully thinking it through, caution is the opposite of haste then and noth sloth. Because sloth is basically not doing anything at all. 

I knew a guy once. I worked with him. He kind of reminded me of Eeyore on Winnie the pooh. He dropped a 20$ bill on the floor, and just kind of sat there looking at it. ‘ohh bother”. I guess I’ll have to bend down and pick that up… *sigh* I sure hope someone doesn’t come along and steal it. 

The wind picked that 20 up and blew it over against a fence. He continued to sit there, and watch the loss of this twenty not caring that it blew away, or was picked up by someone else, or anything. He just sat there, passively watching life go by and to his own detriment. I ended up picking the 20 up. He said well I guess you probably oughta keep that money since you did walk all the way over there and pick it up. Sloth will bring you to ruin just as quickly as haste. 

Fourthly is Debauchery. Debauchery is basically another word for sexual sin. Be it pornography, or adultery, or fornication. People that are engaging in homosexuality, or beastiality, or any and every sexual sin would all fall under debauchery. 

Our nation right now has a love affair with debauchery. Our young people are being told to have sex with as many people as they can, boys or girls so that they know what they like, and what they want. So that they can have these experiences. That its ok to do whatever you want as long as you both have fun. That you can fill your mind with the poison of pornography because if it feels good do it. Who cares about the consequences later? Young people have this philosophy called “yolo” it is an acronym and means you only live once. It drives me crazy. People do drugs, and get drunk and their rational is hey, I’d rather die in a car accident driving drunk, than not to have had that experience at all. This love affair with sin is pervasive in our culture, and is causing an entire generation to whole heartedly embrace all sorts of evil in the name of fun. 
Debauchery is often based in greed, and fueled by hastiness. Greed not for money, but for pleasure. Greed not for material posessions but for things that are poison to your soul. Once your mind is capture by greed for debauchery hastiness kicks in to help you act before you have had a chance to think things through. This is one of the reasons that preachers preach that sexual sin is one of the most dangerous things you can engage in. 

Galations 5:19-21 says “The acts of the flesh are obvious: sexual immorality, impurity and debauchery; 20 idolatry and witchcraft; hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissensions, factions 21 and envy; drunkenness, orgies, and the like. I warn you, as I did before, that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God.”

When we are focused on ourselves and what we want, and what we think we need instead of on Christ for our provision, on Christ for the supply of our need, are we not acting according to the flesh? Pauls warning is severe. Such people will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Let me say that again. Paul says such people will not inherit the kingdom of God. 

I can see the question in some of your faces. What if I have messed up pastor. I knew people in college – even bible college – that messed up. I had a friend on the disciplinary committee, and I never knew names, but would sometimes here scenarios. One guy I knew was feeling depressed. He was living for the Lord as best as he could, following the Lord as he felt led, and was now at bible college. But as a result his wife left him. She said she didn’t care for church people, and wouldn’t be married to a holy roller. Any way, he became depressed, and began going back to his addiction of choice before Christ. He over dosed right on campus at Trinity. Was found by another student, and they got the guy to the hospital. But he had to stand in front of the disciplinary committee. Likewise I heard about a young female student getting pregnant by a young male student. They ended up getting married eventually. But in the mean time they had to stand in front of the disciplinary committee. 

These are people devoted to God, trying to follow God. Going to bible college in response to an urging of God. But yet still they struggled. Does that mean they are not believers? Maybe so. Cultural Christianity is a powerful thing in the south, and even here In florida. People think they are saved because they go to church, because they pray sometimes. But being a Christian is about a relationship with Jesus Christ. About living that out in the day to day. That doesn’t mean a Christian is going to be perfect. But it does mean we strive to live as Christ wanted. Even Paul struggled. That which I hate I do, that which I long to do I don’t do. He wrote at length about a thorn in his side. That could have been a physical issue, but itcould have been tied to doing those things he hates as well. If even Paul couldn’t live a perfect life, Paul who wrote most of the new testament, then how could we possibly do any better? We cant. 

But what is different with the Christian is that when he or she messes up. When we realize that a thing we are doing is wrong, and a sin against God and ourselves we stop and repent. 

Repenting means to literally make a 180 deg turn away from a thing. So if you are repenting of Sloth, you’ll turn towards taking action. If you are repenting of haste, you turn towards being careful and taking actions but with thought and care. If you are turning away from debauchery, you’re turning towards a biblical view of sexuality.  Which means no porn. And sex only between one man and one woman. Who are married. Period. If you are involved with sex outside of marriage, or porn, or any of these things, and learning scripture prohibits them you still have no problem engaging in them, then you have a heart problem. The problem is your heart still belongs to you, and not to God. Your heart is still desperately sinful jeremiah says. In short you are still lost and in need of a savior. Once saved, your salvation cannot be lost. However one who can engage in these activities without remorse, without the conviction of the Holy Spirit was never truly saved to begin with. 

Your walk with the Lord MUST begin with a relationship with him. When you have a relationship with him, you will have no want – a want that is caused by greed, hastiness, debauchery and sloth. You’ll find fulfillment, and have no room for greed. You’ll be concerned with living right and being holy as He is Holy, and you’ll have no room for debauchery. You wont be slothful, nor hasty, but you’ll move in time with the Lord as though it were a great dance and Christ was leading us every step of the way. A life submitted to Christ may not have plenty. But he will supply all your needs. 

If you have never come to a point in your spiritual life where you have committed to repentance and living for the Lord, then today is the day. While the praise team comes up and sings, come talk to me. I know its scary to walk up in front of everyone, but that’s part of the point. We all love each other here. We support each other here. There isn’t a single one of us that is under the impression we are perfect. We all know we are broken, and in need of Jesus. There is no shame in coming forward to meet Jesus, only in staying put, lost in the despair of sin. Jesus says if you are ashamed of him in front of man, he will be ashamed of you in front of God. 

Won’t you come?

We will be in this passage for a few more weeks. 

Announcements. 
Jim and Jason Munn have completed the new members class.  (vote) 
If you are interested in joining the church, or getting baptized, come talk to me. 
If you are interested in helping out, we have plenty of opportunities to serve. Come talk to me. Scripture says he who is faithful with little, can be trusted with much. 

Food pantry Tuesday 10-12, volunteers are encouraged to show up at 9:30 to setup and for prayer. 
Nursing home is not this Sunday but next. Hope to see some of you there. 
Kenny Duffield is in need of some help on Weds to load his Uhaul trailer. If you are interested in helping out, please see Kathy Hudson after the service. She has the details. Kenny has been our faithful friend for several decades now, so I hope you’ll head on out to his house in his hour of need. I’ll be out there on weds to help, and I expect to see some of you out there too. Many hands make lite work. 

Also keep us in prayer. Through the week, every time you think of one of us, or the church stop and take a minute to pray for our guidance about the building, and where we should meet going forward. If that’s here, praise God, if its somewhere else then praise God. 

Time of prayer for the hurricane victims. Short. God controls the elements, the wind and the rain, and the storms are under his control. Pray that he would spare texas from more rain for a time so they can recover and rebuild. Praise him for the opportunity to share the gospel with those affected by the storm. 

Communion
