I read a quote by G Campbell morgan one time that said “you can find a psalm to suit the full range of human emotions … yet despite the human emotions whether in a major or minor key the singer is conscious of God”. 

IN this psalm David makes it clear that nothing works without God. Right from the start, I do not want because the Lord is my shepherd. I lie down in green pastures – and find rest and security, because the Lord is my shepherd. My soul is restored because the Lord is my shepherd. I’m led in righteous ruts because the Lord is my shepherd. Evil is only a shadow we don’t have to fear why? Because the Lord is my shepherd. 

If you hadn’t guessed, were going to pick up in psalms 23 where we left off in vs 4. But we will read the whole thing again from the beginning here in a minute after our people group of the week. The Shaikh. 

There are almost 9 million Shaikh in the world, mostly scattered between three countries – India, Nepal, and Pakistan. Most of them speak Urdu, but many speak a language called Sindhi also. Their religion is Islam. To the best of our knowledge despite their being nearly 9 million Shecki there are no believers in Jesus Christ. They do have a bible in their own language, and it is available online. There are recordings of the gospel in their languages that are being sent out. There are people that are engaging them, but who have as of yet had no traction. The be called a Shaikh is a great honor in the muslim world, and these people were historically marked as having been the first group to have adopted islam and this followed Muhammad. This prestige is something they are loath to give up. Its interesting to me that they are largely shepherds and herders of livestock. They know what it is to be a shepherd and yet don’t know the good shepherd. 

Who will pray for the Shaikh to come to know the good shepherd?

Lets read our passage – all of psalms 23. 

It strikes me that if you can’t say “The Lord IS MY shepherd” then the rest of the verse doesn’t work for you. Unless the Lord is your shepherd, God doesn’t promise to meet all your needs. To protect you in the valley of the shadow of death, to lead you beside the still waters and through the green pastures. He doesn’t promise to take care of our wants and needs. Unless he is our shepherd. There is no satisfaction without God!

You don’t get the rewards of psalm 23, without the relationship of psalm 23. The opening line is pretty clear about that, “The Lord is” that means actively, present tense. My, personally possessive, shepherd – personal leader and guide. 

It strikes me that those who have this relationship with their shepherd don’t want. I heard a preacher talking about a time where he visited the greatest prison in the world. So many people in the prison in fact that there are more inmates than beds, more prisoners than plates. More residents than resources. No prison so populous or oppressive. Just ask the inmates. They are all over worked, and under fed. 

The name of the prison is made from wrought iron, gilded in gold on the front door, four simple letters “want”. 

We all know some of the prisioners. You’ve heard of those that want to keep up with the joneses? Or else those that want something bigger, smaller, faster, shinier, or that can play that latest game. They want people who are thinner, or bigger, or younger. Want is the biggest prison of them all, and every lost person is shackled to their wants. A slave to the desires of a darkened hearts. 

Not everyone will reach the full depths of sin that a human being is capable of sinking to. But everyone apart from Christ will sink to the full depth that they are capable of sinking to. I read a story this week, out of Germany. The chancellor was shocked to find out people were using the internet to encourage and facilitate the sexual abuse of children. Child porn was being traded, grooming methods discussed, and even how to target a little boy or little girl for this awful systematic sexual abuse. What makes little lisa a better candidate than some other little girl. Its awful. Its disgusting, and its pervasive. They have, they believe 30,000 folks in a child sexual abuse and pornography ring in Germany alone. 

Not everyone sinks that deep. But everyone sinks in as deep as they are able. Shackled to sin. In fact we are this way from birth: psalms 51:5 says “Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me”.

At the moment we were born we were steeped in sin, twisted by the depravity of the flesh. Vulnerable to the enticement of the enemy. Praise the Lord we are not all as evil as Hitler. But how evil we are apart from Christ, our sin debt is still greater than one could ever hope to repay on their own. In the words of the old hymn we owed a debt we could not pay, and he paid a debt he did not owe. 

In the context of the scripture today, its this inclination towards evil, this twisting of our heart toward only evil all the time genesis says, or jeremiah 17:9 the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. These are the things that require a shepherd to have his crook. We talked last week about being led in the ruts of righteousness, that we should be in these righteous ruts. And yet because of our sinful nature we still want to wander out of them and way from the path Christ is calling us towards, and so when we do that what happens? 

What happened to Jonah was that God sent a fish to swallow him up, and swim him to Nineveh, and vomit him back up on the shore. 

What happened to a guy I went to southeastern with was that God had blessed him and blessed him and blessed him, and he kept rebelling against God. Kept living for what this world has to offer. He was womanizing, and doing all the drugs he could find. One day his drug habbit exceeded his income from his full time job and so he stepped into dealing drugs. He was buying and selling drugs on a massive scale. Until one day his whole evil empire collapsed on it self, and he was arrested while high, and running around naked under an overpass with 200,000$ in drugs in his car. He was arrested, and sentenced to jail. He spent a year there, angry and fighting. At some point someone invited him to church at the prison ministry. He didn’t want to go, but he didn’t want things to stay the same either, and so he went. After a few months he became a Christian, and now hes training to become a pastor. 

These times in our lives where we rebell against God, and God calls us back is the result of his shepherds crook, his staff. When we start to get off the path, he can grab us and draw us back to himself. What a blessing that is too. The child of God can never go so far off the path that God can’t catch him, and pull him back. We are never so bad that God cant save us. That should be a comfort to us. DOesn’t mean we won’t walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Doesn’t mean we wont have some consequences to deal with – like my friend and his time in jail. But God loves you and is actively leading and guiding you, even when and where you protest, back towards what his will for you is. 

A shepherds rod is an instrument of protection. If David were out guarding the sheep and a hungry lion started making dinner eyes at the sheep, David would use his staff to kill or drive off the lion. Who is it we know that prowles about like a like a lion seeking whom he can destroy? The devil. The rod is a shepherds weapon to protect the sheep against predators, and for us its Jesus death on the cross which defeated sin and death and hell and satan. Jesus death may have hurt his foot, but it crushed the head of our enemy forever. 

IN so doing we are set free from the prison of “want”. 

Vs 5 says he will make a table before me in the presence of my enemies. Dr. Stephen Davey wrote that what is meant here, and how its translated from the Hebrew into a number of languages including both Spanish and Swahili is not just a table covered with food. It doesn’t mean just a buffet table. Its more akin to what we sing about in that old hymn that mentions heavens table lands. To get to the point, what is meant by table here, is a mesa. A lush green, plateau covered in grass and fertile soil, maybe fruit trees, overlooking the valley. A mesa would be a place of security because of the fact its on a mountain. You always want the higher ground in a fight. Its easier to defend. So its more secure. It’s a place abounding with food, so you don’t have to worry about starvation, were provided for. In addition its above all, its above the pleasures and cares of the world. Its above the temptations too. It’s a microcosm of heaven. We will have no need or want there. Our cup runneth over. 

Its interesting that there are a number of people that argue about that last bit. Is David talking about a cup suitable for a human? Or a sheeps feed trough? Either way the image is that we are being given more than just a bare needs. We’re being given enough to fill our needs, and an amount extra too as the cup runs over. Like filling a vehicle. A number of years ago I was getting gas at this gas station in between florida and NC, and it was one of those back woodsy kind of places, where the mayor also ran the filling station, and was the sherrif. It had a mayberry RFD feel to it which was kind of nice. But any way, this place apparently had a problem with their gas pumps. You know how when you fill your gas tank up, the pump stops? At this particular gas station that was not the case, and so when my tank filled up a bit of it squirted out onto my hand, and my pants leg, and the ground. Maybe two cups of gas squirted out, and My cup runneth over. 

I heard a story preached one time, that originally came from Dl Moody. Moody, a noted evangelist of the nineteenth century, was once approached by a woman who needed counseling. Two men, she claimed, were following her. Whenever she stepped onto the city trolley, they stepped onto it behind her. When she stepped off, they stepped off. With a nervous twitch in her neck, she insisted that she had even been followed to his office by these very two men.
Moody could easily detect that this precious woman was suffering from a mental delusion. There was no one following her. But to put her at ease, he told her: “Those two men following you are David’s men. Their names are Goodness and Mercy.” He turned in the Bible to Psalm 23:6 and showed her, “Surely goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life.” She was relieved and exclaimed: “That is wonderful. I have always wondered what their names are.” The woman left that day with peace of mind, comforted to know that it was goodness and mercy that were following her.
As believers in Jesus Christ, you and I need to be also trusting that the goodness and mercy of God are following our every step. We need to be similarly confident and comforted, believing that every day of our lives, these two friends of David are with us for every step of life’s journey.

The word Surely seems a good place to start, surely is meant to be an unwavering assurance according to steven lawson. He goes on to explain that “When David testifies that “goodness” will follow him, he uses a Hebrew word that, as an adjective, means “beautiful” or “pleasant.” It represents the attractive way with which God shows His love for His sheep. God is perfectly good in His character and flawlessly good in all His actions. Therefore, He can do only good to His beloved flock. This is demonstrated in His attentive care for their many needs.
David also states that “mercy” follows him. This is the unconditional love of the Good Shepherd toward those whom the Father has chosen and entrusted to Him. He loves them with His sovereign love that can never be extinguished. Even when we are faithless, He remains faithful to us.” 

He closes with the idea that goodness and mercy are like two sheep dogs that follow us every day of our lives, there will surely never be a day when this doesn’t happen. On the one hand the loveliness of God, his pleasantness, his beauty. Drawing us towards God, chasing us  always and nipping at our heals. Likewise his mercy is following us, his unextinguishable love. Even when we are faithless, even when we fight him, even when we try to leave the paths of righteousness, HE is there ahead of us ready to grab us with his staff, and his two loyal dogs are right behind us trying to shepherd us closer to our savior. 

That in my mind is a beautiful picture. Were surrounded on all sides by someone who loves us, who is drawing us towards holiness, towards himself. Attentively caring for us, making a lush tableland in the presence of our enemies. Not because we deserve it, because we don’t. but because he loves us any way.
What a wonderful God we serve. Amen?
Gospel.
