Is Jesus worth it.

The slough of despond.
John Bunyan a believer in Jesus christ that lived in the 1500s wrote one of the best books of all time after the bible. Its called pilgrims progress. Bunyan was in jail for over a decade, and while in horrible prison conditions he penned this classic work of literature that is an allegory of the Christian life. It follows a man named Christian who meets another man named evangelist who tells him the city he lives in will be destroyed. Weighed down by his burden of sin, and his companion pliable set out for the wicket gate where all true believers start their journey. Along the way they encounter a huge scar in the ground they call the slough of despair. This ugly pit was full of quick sand, and bogged down anyone who tried to cross it. There was no way around. One could only cross. So pliable and Christian try, and immediately sink to their necks. Christians burden (his sin) makes him sink all the faster, and make it even harder to get out. Pliable eventually wiggles free, but when Christian calls to him for help he runs off. I gotta think in that moment, Christian had to be asking himself is this worth it. Is following Christ worth going through dark nasty pits of despair. Worth going through troubles that threaten to over take and kill him. He struggles, and struggles and struggles, and is just about to give in when the King (God) sends a man named Help to pull him out and guide him to the wicket gate. Help explains to him that there were steps all along, and if he had but looked, he would have found them. Christian indignantly demanded that if God were truly good he would have sealed off the slough, had it filled in so that other travelers wouldn’t be endangered. Help replies that the King (God) could fill it in, but that its important that the travelers cross the slough. To learn to depend on the help of God, to learn to be careful to follow the path the king laid out. To cause unwary travelers to ask themselves the question, is Jesus worth it.
We watched the movie insanity of God a while back, and it was absolutely amazing. It was heart breaking, convicting and inspiring all at once. in a nutshell this is the question Nik had to find an answer to. Nik a graduate of southern Baptist theological seminary, nik a graduate of southeastern Baptist theological seminary, nik a missionary of more than two decades on the mission field, had to come to grips with. He knew he was willing to give his life for the lord, he and his wife had come to grips with that a long time prior. But when his own son was taken, and when he found himself drowning in the slough of despair, he had to ask himself is Jesus worth it.
David being hunted by Saul
Were going to spend most of our time tonight in Ps 56 while youre turning there, I’ll set the stage a little bit. David has just slayed a bunch of Philistines. The philistines you’ll remember are wicked and evil people that plague the people of Israel for centuries – clear through the judges, and I think nearly the end of Davids life. You remember Samson – the strongest man who ever lived, who slayed scores pf philistines with the jawbone of a donkey. So his evil wife convinces him to spill the beans on his strength and cuts his hair allowing the philistines to poke his eyes out, and they tie him to two great pillars supporting their huge party to celebrate Samsons capture. But they didn’t realize his hair had grown back and his strength returned, and so he killed maybe thousands more by pulling the pillars over and dropping the pagan temple on top of the pagans heads.
This same wicked nation is now hunting david trying to kill him. Lets read.
So you see he’s being chased. He’s being attacked. They twist his words, conspire, lurk, stalk him. They want to murder him vs 6. This is a pretty dire situation, and it makes me wonder what was being said. Maybe the ambassador from the philistines was lying to saul. We don’t know. But we do know they were twisting his words trying to bring about his ruin vs 5. In the next chapter, saul is persuing him, and he says they are like ravenous beasts. Like lions. Which reminds me of Pilgrims progress. After the slough, Christian has to climb this tall hill, and he reaches the top and is exhausted. But in order to get inside the palace wonderful, he has to brave a pair of lions. He doesn’t know they are chained. He doesn’t know that if he just sticks to the middle of the path he will be fine. All he knows is two great big huge, hungry roaring lions are right there acting like they are going to kill him if he gets too close. He can’t see the great steaks in the ground, or chains that restrain them. All he knows is that his path lies between the lions. He has to ask him self, is Jesus worth it, as he passes between them. On the other side, he can see there was never any danger. But until he mustered up the faith all he could see were their teeth, and claws.
I love the allegorical nature of Pilgrims progress, and I love how true to life the situations are.
When he faced the slough. It wasn’t until he called out for help that the King sent Help. With the Lions, the battle was already won. But he couldn’t see that, all he knew was there were hungry lions ahead of him and that he might die so that he might live for Christ.
There was another story about a man who had grown up without a father around. His father you see had become a Christian. He started reading the bible to his kids. His kids started telling their friends about the bible, and the stories in the bible, and before long their parents wanted to hear these things to. The man tried hard to turn people away. He wasn’t a pastor he would argue. He just wanted to worship God and for his kids to know God’s word. They wanted the same, and they eventually argued him into allowing them to attend. Before long, over 70 people were meeting together, worshipping God together, were studying scripture together, and the police couldn’t turn a blind eye any longer, and so they arrested the man and took him to jail.
His boy was just a few months old. Ten Years later, they encountered a man wrapped in a sheet. Beaten nearly lifeless, naked except for the sheet, and right away they knew who he was. The boy had grown up seeing pictures of his father. The mother wept and held her husband, and the little boy, who’d never met his father hugged him tight and declared that he was so proud of his father for following Jesus and not turning his back. What a slough to travel through. Talk about being surrounded by lions. But in his mind, and in the mind of that precious 10 year old boy the answer was a resounding yes, Jesus is worth it.
Another story from the movie, Nik was traveling the world to see how Christianity survived in hostile places. He found a contact in china. He was to be at a certain meat market at a certain time, wearing a certain color shirt. At the appointed time he was met by a Chinese individual who led him towards a van, and drove him for 19 hours deep into china where he met with around a hundred Chinese church leaders. The first day he interviewed four men, and the four men were so blessed by it that they insisted the interviews take place infront of everyone. So the next day they had a series of interviews, they pulled him up on stage and let him ask his questions. By the end of the day, the Chinese pastors wanted to ask Nik some questions, and he relented. The number one most requested question, the thing that was burning in the hearts and minds of all the Chinese believers was has the Gospel of Jesus made it to any other countries, do free people know about Jesus. He told them the truth, and named off the countries he could think of that knew about Jesus, and then he told them about Somalia. About how he had been a missionary there. How this missionary work had cost him the life of his son, and how when he left Somalia, his family were the last known believers in that country. How he felt defeated. He was tired, and went straight to bed. The next morning he heard people raising a commotion, and ran out side, and found his interpreter who told him to shut up and listen. Which amused him, since he didn’t speak Chinese. But when he finally listened and as they walked through the ranks of these pastors he realized they were on their knees praying for Somalia. So moved were they by his story that as a group they had committed to getting up an hour earlier than normal so they could spend an hour on their knees praying for people in places like Somalia for the rest of their lives, or until Somalia had been reached completely with the gospel.
When was the last time we were so moved by anything that we were willing to give up sleep?
May it cost me all that I am, I want to follow Christ. May it cost me my life. The life of my family. The life of any children I may one day have, I want to follow Christ. Whether that is here, or there, or china, or Iraq, or wherever he may lead me I want to follow Christ.
In the Words of David, what can mere mortals do to me? Its as though he says so what you can take my lfie, but you can’t separate me from my savior. You can hurt my body, but you can’t take my joy. You can maime and disfigure me, but my trust is in the Lord, where my help comes from. Vs 10 whose word I praise. And when everything conspires against me, this is how I will know my God is for me. What can a mere man do in light of the good god we serve?
Let me ask you this. Have you come to a point in your spiritual life where you’ve asked Jesus to pay the price for your sins? Have you said Yes Jesus you’re worth it? Because that’s where it all starts.
And I think decisions for your self are easy. But lets go to a hard place. What about your finances? Is Jesus worth a paltry 10%? Or harder still, is Jesus worth risking a relationship with your kids? Because I know some of us have family, kids, maybe grandkids that don’t know Jesus as their savior. I know we all have friends, and family, loved ones that don’t know jesus as their savior. Is jesus worth risking those relationships? Do you have enough faith that Jesus is real, to risk offending them with the gospel? I hope so. If you want help learning to share the gospel come talk to me, talk to Kenny Duffield. Talk to my dad. We can help you learn. Movies are a great segue. There are maybe 5 or 6 stories, and all movies and books are based upon one of those. One of those 5 stories is the story of Christ, a hero that gives it all up or nearly all for the greater good of another, or of mankind. If you can pick that up, and run straight to the cross, you’ll be fine. You’ve all spent a fair amount of time in church, you’ve heard the scriptures, and in that moment, when God puts someone in your path that needs the gospel, he pulls those things out of you. Kurt – you had a chance to share the gospel with a brother before he passed a while back – are these things I’m saying true? Have you ever had training to share the gospel? But didn’t god Give you the words any way?
Scripture says God’s word is written on our hearts, and I have experienced this to be true. When I was a little guy, the school I attended had us memorize different bible verses. And if we could repeat them back, we got a colored card with the scripture and reference on it to keep. I had scores of these cards. I can’t sit there and repeat them all from memory 30 some years later; but when I need them they are there. I was in the UK sharing the gospel with a English convert to islam. He was foreful and almost mean with the things he had to say about Christians. But the rest of the team was talking to people that were less ferocious, and more receptive. So since he was the loudest mouth around, I decided to talk to him directly, and keep him from reinforcing the weak around him – and it was amazing to see God work.
He’d run off at the mouth about how Christians are this and Christians are that, and God would put a bible verse and reference in my mouth. I’d hand him the bible, and read it out loud with and to him. He would make another accusation, and God would give me another verse. It was like an epic sword fight from some old movie. In the end, he packed up his things and left. Some of those verses, I hadn’t thought about more than once or twice since kindergarten. But God brought them right back to mind when I needed them. They were written on my heart, and when I didn’t know what to say our Lord patiently read them back to me.
God is Good. All the time. I challenge you this week, to give up a little bit of your morning, maybe get up a little early, or go to bed a little late, and pray for the people in your life that don’t know Christ. Because I’m here to tell you that Hell is hot, and heaven is sweet. Everyone will go to one of those places – what about you? What about your kids? Your family, your loved ones, your friends? Where will they go?
Dad is going to come up here and sing, and while he does, maybe God is calling you to take that first step of faith, and find salvation. If so come talk to me.
Maybe he’s calling you to be baptized, if so come talk to me.
Maybe you’re looking for a church home, and would like to join and be a part of the decisions and direction of the church, come talk to me.
Or maybe just maybe God is calling you to go on a foreign missions trip, maybe short term, or maybe long term. If so, I want you to come talk to me. I want to take a trip next year, and would like to talk to any who are interested in going to another country for a week to tell people about Jesus. To pray for people, to maybe help meet some physical needs… If that’s you come talk to me.
Communion
the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.” For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.
Closing prayer, may our hearts be broken for the lost. May my heart be set on fire for you. May we be able to look back over our life and have said with our actions: yes jesus was worth it to me.
