Psalms 1
Were going to be in psalms ch 1 if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. Psalms chapter 1. Page _______ in the large print pew bible. 

It strikes me that our passage tonight talks about two possible outcomes for life. While you’re turning there I want to talk about a guy named Lawrence peters yogi bera. 15 time all star, 14 world series, member of baseballs all century team. A lot of people don’t know, but he joined the navy at 18 and participated in the American invasion of Omaha beach during world war two. Could you imagine that? What would it have been like to storm the beach at that age, all the chaos and death. But he stormed the beach and survived. He is also one of of the most quoted human beings. He said “I never said all the things that I said” Never answer an anonymous letter, it aint over till its over, “I take a 2 hour nap every day from 1 to 4”. Wouldn’t that be nice. Another time he said “When you come to a fork in the road, take it”. On the one hand we are promised blessed joy and delight. On the other we are promised the opposite if we live in rebellion. 

I was in an old testament class a few years ago, and the professor promised 5$ to anyone that could find a concept written about in another book. I took it as though he wanted us to look RIGHT NOW, so I did a couple searches on google, and in my bible software and found a single book that had been written about it. 

He offered me 5$ then and there, but I said I’d rather have an advance copy of the book he was working on, which was a thousand pages long and on the topic of the psalms. Specifically the first and second chapters. His whole argument was that the first two psalms are a thesis, or a statement of what exactly the entire rest of the book would be about. He calls them the gateway. Says they unlock the entirety of the psalms, and are in some ways the thesis for all of scripture. 

This first verse unlocks the secret of happiness, true happiness. How much time does the world spend engaged in the pursuit of happiness. A waitress friend of mine had a baby with a guy thinking that would make her happy. They aren’t together any more. We all know people that have tried to use sex to be happy, or drugs, or any of a hundred other things. For some its tv or sports or relationships. Or cruises.  In the end the best these things can offer is an empty temporary high. A temporary escape. Most of these things leave you as empty as you were to start with. But one thing offers true and lasting joy. The ESV uses blessed in our passage tonight. But it can be translated other ways – one of which is joy. John Macarthur says to translate this word as joy would be selling it short. The emotion being described here is stronger than that. Deeper than that, more full and lasting than that. Its not talking about simply being happy. Blessed is to joy what the atlantic ocean is to Lake ockeechobee, Even that falls short of describing the kind of Joy we can have in the Lord. The Hebrew word here,  Though it includes joy,  its talking about the only real kinds of happiness that will last. We get glimpses of it in this life, but it will be fully realized in the life hereafter. 

Lets read psalms 1

So this is an Introduction to the book – thesis statement (reformation study bible 2015). To all of psalms. 
The next word I wanted to look at was delight.  My trusty Hebrew dictionary says it could also be translated as “to take pleasure in” to “delight in”, that our desires, or will are inclined towards the all fulfilling joy that can only come from the Lord, that our every wish be inclined towards Gods presence, Another one says “that we find delight in inclining our heart towards the business of God”. True joy, true delight is only found in the presence of God. John Piper made a name for himself a number of years ago by describing this idea as “Christian hedonism”. His idea was that we should seek to find the most joy possible from our relationship with God. That in Christ is the only lasting Joy. That we should pursue God and his will for our own pleasure like a lost person addicted to something. I don’t think it needs a special name, but boiled down we should persue God, and there is peace, and contentment, and yes joy – delight found in inclining our will towards God. While some of this we can know now, we can only taste a thimble full compared to the unending vastness of delight God has for us in heaven. All these earthly treasures we store up for ourselves will be garbage by comparison. 

Danny Akin the president of my school points out that one of these is a life we should run after, and the other is a life we should run from. One is a life of misery, and one a life of joy. One is a life of pain, and the other is a life of fulfillment. One is a life of causing harm, and the other is a life of blessing and being blessed. One a life that leads to salvation, and the other is a life that leads to hell. 

Secondly, smarter folks than I have pointed out that there is a bit of a picture of Christ in this passage. Think about it, read vs 1. Is Christ going to walk in the counsel fo the wicked? Is Christ going to stand in the way of sinners, is Christ going to sit in the seat of scoffers? Certainly not. Christ is going to walk in the counsel of his father. When it comes to standing in the way of sinners, I see that as their being a line drawn in the sand, and on one side is God, and his ways in his word. On the other side is sin death hell and satan. One side is the way of God, and the other the way of sinners. Christ won’t be standing in the way of sinners. In fact when it comes to sinners, I think Christ will be doing like that old Spurgeon quote that I love which says - If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to Hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped about their knees, imploring them to stay. If Hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go unwarned and unprayed for. We say that, and we may share the gospel with a dozen or so people a year, but Christ literally threw down his body so that we might have freedom from sin, so that we can stand with his father. Christ is the opposite of a scoffer of God. Vs two Christ is one who delights in the law of the Lord, Christ mediates on his fathers word. Remember the story about when Christ was a kid? They went to Jerusalem, and Christ hung out at the temple, and his family accidently left without him? It took them a couple days to realize Christ wasn’t with them. Why? Because he was about his fathers business. He was studying the word of God. 

Vs 3 Christ is like a tree, planted by a stream of water, Christ yields fruit, Christ does not wither. Christ prospers in all he does. 

Talking about plants withering. We were somewhere and I picked up a little palm tree, its decorative, it grows slow, its kind of cool looking. Its not messy. Its small, it likes the shade. So when I found all these things out I brought it home. I planted it in a planter, not in the ground, and watered it. With all the rain we’ve had I’ve not been watering it too much, they like a little bit of dry from time to time, and so I broke my habit. I noticed a  couple days ago it had nearly withered to death. By contrast, my neighbors had trimmed some trees and threw out a banana tree. They had cut it off at the ground. Stuck it in a trash can and forgot about it. I saw it, and wondered if it could be saved. My granparents brought bananas to the area, and it was likely one related to one he planted, so feeling all nostalgic I brought it home. I stuck it in a bucket of water, and trimmed up the leaves. When it kept living, I dug a hole near the canal, and planted the banana in the ground. Watered it thoroughly, and promptly forgot about it for a while. Next time I checked it, the neighbors kids had stomped it down, and – I thought killed it. But its little roots had found the waters of the canal. It started putting it self back together and today doesn’t look like anything negative has ever happened to it. I’m expecting fruit this next season. It was planted by the canal, and pulled its nutrients from the rich deposits on the bank, pulled its water right from the fresh water that pours into that end of the canal. Its like being planted in Christ. We draw our nutrients from God’s word and the holy spirit, we draw our nourishment from God and his word. We have life because we are planted in God, and while the neighbors standing in the way of sinners may try and hurt us, because we are rooted in God, because we are nourished by God, because we are watered by God, and submerged in God’s word we can stand. There is more here, and when you get to this passage, or if you’ve already read it, then continue through the chapter, if its talking about something good it’s describing God, and when its talking about evil and sinful things, or wicket things, those are the opposite of God. If Christ is a tree planted by streams of water, and the wicked are chaff blown by the wind, we can say that Christ won’t be moved by the tempermental winds of the world. Of Culture. 

I was reading a thing this week talking about how Christians just need to compromise on a few things, and then culture will love us again. It made me sick to my stomach. They argued if you just don’t tell sinners about hell they won’t feel judged, and they will go to your church. If you just don’t talk about how someone needs to take the punishment for sin, they won’t feel judged, and they will go to your church. It was sickening. Right after the next article I read was from Stanley – he said “we just need to unpin ourselves from scripture”. As though as Christians we have spent too much time on scripture, and not enough on other things. The winds of our culture are strong, and will blow us into troubled waters if we aren’t anchored in scripture. Which is part of what is so troubling about the stanleys statement. Now its true, on the one hand that the more you speak, the more you write, the longer you live the more likely you are to say something you don’t mean. I hope its that. But if he truly has unpinned his faith from scripture he no longer has an anchor and can be blown around by the capricious winds of the world. And there is a downward spiral to that.
Downward progression to sin (walks stands sits – alluded to in romans).

So we talked about the Joy and delight and blessing in the Lord, we talked about how this passage is  talking about Jesus, and now lets look at the downward progression in this chapter. Back to vs one again. Blessed is the man who walks not, stands not, sits not. It seems to me that what changes from phrase to phrase is the amount of movement. You might use the word “recalcitrance”. Recalcitrance is having an attitude a lot like my dog. I love joy, shes a great dog. But she’s as stubborn and bull headed as they come. She is ruled by her passions in the moment. Fortunately, or unfortunately those almost always surround food. She eats a couple pounds of food a day. If meal time comes around, and I’m not ready to go outside, get her food, and feed her, she makes a nuisance of her self. I had to get rid of my door knob, because she could open that and go find food when she was ready to eat. Now I have a deadbolt, and she hasn’t figured it out yet. But when shes hungry I’ve caught her mouthing the lock trying to get it open. So she can go out to where the food barrel is, and try to open that up. OR if were outside walking somewhere when she realizes shes hungry, she will start hunting food for herself. She stalks squirrels, and coons, and possum, trying to catch them, full on ignoring my commands in persuit of her own desires. In those moments its all about what Joy wants, when joy wants it, if she thinks being obedient to me will get her what she wants, shes the most obedient dog ever, but if she thinks she is the best way to get what she wants, she does what she wants, and ignores the consequences. Her fight against obedience is recalcitrance. Literally the word was invented to describe the process by which calcium slowly grows over time. If it grows on a thing that’s supposed to move, it makes moving difficult, ultimately slowing the moving parts till they stop, and are locked in place. 

As we obey our passions and ignore our lord we too become recalcitrant. It may start by being blown this way or that by our passions, by our culture, by our sinful desires, by the evil in this world. Scripture says we fight not against flesh and blood alone – but we do fight against that. We also fight against the evil things of the world. If we aren’t anchored by the stream of water that flows from God we are going to be in a big mess. 

Thursday morning, Joy and I were walking next door to my parents house. She was not on her leash, but she had been especially obedient lately, and so I decided to give her a chance. The command I give her is heal, and the action I expect is for her front legs to be about even with my front legs. She shouldn’t run ahead, or drop behind. She should always be beside me, and to the right. Things started off well, we made it to the bottom of the porch stairs and she took off like a rocket behind another neighbors house. I had to run around and chase her, and catch her. Even then she fought me, she jumped, and tried to spin, through her body weight against the ground, and played dead. She squirmed and jumped, and rattled around trying to get free. But I wouldn’t let her go. 

I punished her. Because I love her. Because a spanking is a loving thing compared to getting hit by a truck, which is a possibility if she refuses to listen by the road. A spanking is loving compared to her being stolen by some other family that doesn’t understand her needs. A spanking is a loving thing compared to going to the pound. As her behavior gets worse, so does the consequences until she becomes more obedient. 

Likewise in this package, you can see the slowing of the response, the lessening of the movement, the walking, the standing, and finally the sitting in the ways of sinners. 

It reminded me of a passage in romans that has another list chronicling the downward spiral. The passage is in Romans 1, and in context its talking about people upon whom God’s wrath will be poured out. People that thought they were being wise, but compared to the truth of God’s word proved them selves fools, scripture says their hearts grow continually darker. First it says they are given over to impure sexual desires, second to shameful lusts, third he allows the consequences of their actions to affect their mind. It says they are given over to a depraved mind. At which point they are described 1:29 as being filled with every kind of depravity, gossips, slanderers, murders, full of envy, deceipt, malice, and strive. They are insolent, arogent, and boastful. Disobey their parents, and invent new ways to practice the same old evils. No understanding, no fidelity, no love, no mercy, and not only do they do these things, they approve of the other people who also do them. 

Friends, we’ve all known people that met that second description. People consumed by lusts – not only for sex, but sometimes for drugs, or whatever they think is going to please them in the moment. Forsome its money, or relationships or whatever. We’ve all met these people that persue the things of the world, and the flesh over the things of the Lord. These are the people Psalms 1:4-6 is talking about. They will be blown around like chaff, unable to stand and face the Judgement of God, and will ultimately pay the ultimate price for their wickedness. 

Friends some of you have never come to a point in your life where you’ve decided to follow Jesus. Tonight, you’ve come to a fork in the road, will you take it? Will you turn from your own judgement about what seems good, and embrace what actually is good? 

Maybe some of you are believers but are turning away from the Lord, and trying to go back down some of those same old dark paths you used to walk apart from Christ. Stop right there, turn around and run back to Christ. He’s right there waiting for you. 

But it all starts with the gospel. 

Gospel.
