Psalms 84
Were going to be in psalms 84 today if you’ve brought your bible and I hope you have. While you’re turning there, were going to talk about Vacations. I’m getting ready to go on one this summer, and I’m kind of looking forwards to it. Do you guys look forward to going on vacation? Who doesn’t! What do you like about vacation? I was fortunate enough to go on two vacations last year, my good friend Bill took David and I on a pair of cruises. One of which was for my parents anniversary and birthday celebration at the end of last year. A cruise is not something I could afford on my own, if it weren’t for Bill, I’d not be able to do that kind of thing I don’t think at this point in my life. Any way, there is a lot of fun on a cruise ship. We spent a lot of time in the pool and hot tub. We attended a concert in an elevator, saw a different performance pretty much every night, and the food. The food was amazing. We went to all sorts of new places, and saw lots of cool things. There is a lot to enjoy In a vacation. Better than the food though, is spending time together as a family with the people you both love and like. Vacations are amazing. Refreshing, invigorating. So much good in a vacation. Our passage today is a step above a vacation. It’s describing the journey to worship God at the temple. This is the song of an old testament believer on their way to church. 

Lets talk about our people group of the week, and then we will read the text. 

I think we can break this chapter down to three major sections – my delight is in the Lord, my strength is in the Lord, and my Trust is in the Lord. 

Lets start with the first section. The psalmists delight, and your and my delight is in the Lord. This is clear through the first four chapters. It starts with How lovely is your dwelling place. Have you guys ever been to a palace? Ten years ago I was living in England, and went to see Windsor Palace. The queen has a number of residences – Buckingham palace, Windsor palace, and 8 or 10 more. There are a lot of palaces. The queen however lives most of the week in Buckingham palace, and then spends her weekends at Windsor. 

Windsor palace is the largest occupied castle in the world. The queen hosts foreign dignitaries, and hosts events there. Her honor guard the Knights of the Garter, are all inducted into the order in the garter room of the castle. The queen was not in residence while I was there, so I was able to take a tour of the palace. Every staircase, every new corner of every new room was loaded top to bottom with expensive art, and intricate and ornate suits of armor. Armed soldiers, jewelry, and objects of historic importance to England. Including a throne while I was there. Every room had huge ceilings. It was nice and cool despite the summer weather. The crown jewels had been stored there during the war, and the queen even slept in the dungeons once upon a time. It’s a storied and magnificent place. Its probably the most opulent place Ive ever been. Every time I turned a corner you could hear an otherwise reserved English person exclaim how lovely! Have you ever been to one of the smithsonians in Washington dc? Its sort of like one of those, but much bigger, and is also a home. 

Scripture says how lovely is your dwelling place. The home of a king or queen projects power, and authority. It is a reflection of a peoples love for their ruler under a good ruler. At one time the English monarch was arguably the most powerful person in the world, and the treasures of their throne were maintained. The English palaces are some of the most lovely that we can see here on earth, but they are ugly compared to what we will see in heaven one day. Everything we see on earth every scenic vista every beautiful sunset is product of the creative mind of our savior. Niagra falls, and the grand canyon, the Hawaiian islands, the beauty of Alaska, the tropical reefs. Did you know there are 33000+ species of fish in the world? When we were diving looe key reef a few years back we were swimming in a cloud of fish even bigger than that near as I can tell. Fish of every color of the rainbow, of a hundred different sizes from little tiny ones to fish bigger than the tables we eat at here at church during fellowship dinners. You could hear the thump thump of the massive grouper swimming along beneath you. It was sort of like diving in a national geographic magazine. 

What about the northern lights? Any of you ever seen the northern lights? The beautiful blues and greens that dance across the nights sky?

What about the beauty in the furthest reaches of space. Bob Leko when we were in college together used to love to spend his time on the library computers looking at astronomical things. Things like the crab nebulae. Which is cool because its almost exactly the same on both sides. Perfect symmetry like that is rare. Plus the colors, it’s a brilliant electric blue and green and red. It’s the leftovers of an exploding star. What we see isn’t even what it looks like any more, its thousands of light years away, and the light we see was a reflection of what it looked like thousands of years ago. All of it a beautiful manifestation and fusion of perfect creativity and order. Math and art synthesized by our infinite creator God into something cool for us to look at. Something to project a mere drop of his creative power and orderly brilliant mind. Not to mention the amount of things he left for us to figure out. Math, sciences, and so on. According to IBM The amount of knowledge we have about the world around us has been doubling every 12 hours for this whole year so far, and bound to double faster than that by the time our kids and grandkids are grown. By then perhaps our knowledge will double every 12 minutes, or 12 seconds. All of this that we’ve discussed God created in 6 days. All of the knowledge of math, and science, and technology, all of the things we’ve been able to explore or maybe only see with a telescope. All of these things in only six days. 

Yet how long has God been constructing his home? How long has he been preparing a place for us? God who existed before, and will exist after time ceases has been preparing a place for us. A dwelling place to share with us. As his sons and daughters. For all we know hes been creating a place for us for the equivalent of billions of our years. IF everything beautiful we can know or imagine or learn was created in six days, what could God do with six or sixty billion years? What could he design with all of eternity at his disposal?

Heres an unpopular opinion, I think heaven is going to be so glorious, you know we read about all these stories of people who say they have been to heaven and come back. I think heaven is going to be so glorious that should anyone ever really get there and see more than the reflection of its shadow pass by, that they wouldn’t be able to come back to earth and ever be able to be happy again. How lovely is his dwelling place. The Hebrew word there is interesting too, because ydidot – and if Dalia were here, Id ask her to correct my pronunciation, that Hebrew word means lovely or beloved. In fact almost every time its translated it means beloved. God uses it to talk about his beloved people. Its used of a husband in regards to his wife, of a wife in regards to her husband. It’s a place we are going to deeply and dearly love. Its used to describe things that are perfectly pleasing to the eyes, that are pleasing to the stomach that are pleasing to all of the organs. The author of this psalm is in this little phrase describing heaven as being perfectly pleasing in every way. How lovely is your dwelling place oh Lord Almighty. 

That says so much about our God too, that he would be willing to share this place with us. That a portion of it was designed with us in mind. To please us out of an over flow of God’s power, and order, and creativity. So much so that our soul will faint with longing.  We will be like the sparrows making our homes in the presence of the Lord always singing his praise. What delight there will be. David no more wheelchair buddy. One day, no more infirmity, or disease or sadness or tears. No more failed hernia meshes, or cancers to take your children away. No more pain, no more suffering, no more covid 19. How lovely is your Dwelling place.

Were going to try to briefly cover the other two elements, the first was our delight is in the lord. The second was our strength is in the Lord. 

In fact someone read vs 5-7. 

There is some controversy about what exactly is in view here. Baca means tears. Baca also is a kind of plant that weeps tears. So whether its tears directly, or the crying plant the imagery is clear. These are the hard times in life. Even though one is a believer in Jesus Christ, even though one hopes and joys in the lord, even though one looksforward to delighting in the presence, and in the dwelling of the Lord, one still has to travel through these rough spots. These valleys of tears, or baca valley. The difference is will you have to go through it alone? If everything comes back to you, and having to do it in your own strength, you’re in for a miserable time. IF you always only depend on your self to get through, to make times of peace, and contentment, you’re going to be miserable. We talked about Psalms 13 a while back, and David leaning on his own council, and being only miserable all the time. That’s what happens when you depend on your own strength. Because our own strength – how ever formidable it might be is a gentle breeze compared to the hurricane of God’s strength. My grandmother used to sometimes say things like “that has a fart’s chance in a hurricane”. For the strongest of us, our strength is little more than that compared to God’s strength. 

Brothers and sisters, are you weary? Lean into God. His strength is perfect when our strength is gone. If you’re having trouble leaning on God’s strength, then pay attention to the last section. Frequently when we can’t delight in the Lord, and lean into the strength of the Lord, its because we are weak when it comes to trusting in the Lord. You can’t hardly trust someone you don’t know. Vs 9 calls God our shield. What is the purpose of a shield? Protection from attack. In warfare, back in the old days of shooting arrows from bows they would frequently shoot arrows that were on fire, it helped illuminate the battle field, it spread chaos in their enemies camp, might cause collateral damage, may make people stop firing to put out a fire near them. Required vats of accelerant to dip their arrows in… but the problem with a vat of accelerant is if fire gets in there it can explode. PLUS the enemy could see them coming, they knew to cover up with their shields. When they could see the flaming arrows come from their enemy. So some commanders would fire a thing called a night arrow. Basically a night arrow was a normal arrow that wasn’t on fire. Like a daytime arrow, but fired at night. They were invisible, and at night couldn’t be seen or predicted, they would catch the enemy off guard, and prevent them from using their shield.  But our shield is the Lord. He is active and working shielding us by day or by night from flaming arrows, and night arrows. The Lord that can with his finger carve out the grand canyon, and shape niagra falls, and trigger the northern lights, or each evening paints the sky with a new and unique sunset, is the one who is promising to be your shield. You can trust in that. One of the best things you can do when your strength is failing is turn to worshipping God. Our psalmist says better is one day in your courts. The courts – and there were several different ones at different points for different temples, the courts were where the people gathered and worshipped. Fealing week? Worship God. Feeling defeated? Worship God. Feeling like you might give up? Worship God. Because in worshipping God we find rest, and peace, and strength. In worshipping God we find hope. We are reminded of what a mighty God we serve, we can encounter God himself. 

The psalmist wishes he could be like the birds that made their nests in the temple in the presence of God, but now under the new testament we can be closer to God than that. We can have a personal relationship with him. 

But all of that starts with the Gospel.
