Psalms 84

Were going to be in psalms 84 if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. While you re turning there, lets talk about our people group of the week. 

So before we read, I want to draw your attention to the very top of the passage. Kinda in between vs 83 and vs 84, see where it says “For the director of music. According to gittith. Of the Sons of Korah”. That’s called the superscript, or superscription. Super being above, and script being the verse. Make sense? SO in this particular superscript, I want to draw your attention to a couple of things. For one thing, these verses were given to the directors of music. These weren’t just dusty dry passages that people kept in a book in their home. These were originally meant to be sang, and performed! A lot of people skip these psalms, these songs, but there is so much value and depth hidden away in these that its worth spending some time in them. I love the psalms. We talked last week about how being thankful can guard your heart. Psalms can help remind you what you’re thankful for. This particular psalm was written by the sons of Korah. Anyone know who they are? Most people might say hey I think I saw their name in the psalms one time, but they are actually mentioned in a few places. They go back quite a ways. Back to the times where the Israelites carried around the ark of the covenant, and set up a tabernacle tent. The sons of Korah were part of the tribe of levi, but were ineligible to be preists because they weren’t sons of Aaron. Never the less, Moses gave them a job, and they had to carry, and clean a lot of the treasure that belonged in the tabernacle. Candle abras, and all sorts of decorations, and treasures that belonged inside the tabernacle, they had to carry. The other levites that had roles related to the tabernacle were allowed to put their items on a cart, and have a beast of burden haul them around, but not the sons of Korah. They couldn’t just carry them either, they had to wrap each piece up individually, and carry them by hand. So it was a lot of extra work. Work that required trust. So fast forward, now Solomans temple has been built, and the sons of Korah sort of clean a little bit, and more or less guard the important items, the treasures of the temple. They watched the doors scripture says. So the sons of Korah spent a lot of time, just outside the temple. Would have been privy to what was going on inside. It was an important roll!

When I was in college, a lot of guys paid their way through school with security jobs. They would have to sit there in a room, watching a bunch of monitors, trying to keep people from stealing things. One friend caught this man trying to steal 30 items of clothing by wearing all of them underneath this great big winter parka, in florida, in summer. He left nothing to the imagination regarding what he was doing. It was clear he was a theif. But more often than not my friends stories would be pretty mundane. Stared at a screen, almost fell asleep. Did fall asleep (Shh!!). Bored. Boring. Did homework, but atleast was able to get paid for it. Kind of stories. 

I imagine that’s what these sons of Korah’s job would be like. Watch the door. Don’t steal the treasure. Dust the candle holders, go home. Day in and day out. 

I imagine – even though it was something as stunning as solomans temple, where every single item represented the very best of what mankind could produce in gold, or silver, or precious stones, or out of carved wood, even then, I imagine, elements of it could get old. Like the people that work at Disney. I read a thing talking about Disney’s code, and how they handle different things. Disney is a magical place till you work there. One Disney princess said a day didn’t go by where she wasn’t vomited on, groped, spit on, or hit by some unruly little kid. Its magic until you work there, and then it loses its shine. 

With that kind of a backdrop, lets read our passage today, psalms 84

Doesn’t the backstory just add a lot of depth to that? Every day all day, watching the door. Yet right there In vs 1, How lovely is your dwelling place, My soul Faints, my heart and flesh cry out! Better is one day in your courts than thousands elsewhere. 

You know it strikes me that its so easy to take the beauty around us for granted. I mean you ask the folks that live in the mountains if they could live anywhere they wanted to, where would they go? Most of them would say to see the sea, or maybe to Alaska, or Europe. Ask the people at the ocean where they want to go, and they’d probably tell you the mountains, and ask an Alaskan, they’d probably say somewhere warm. People take for granted whats around them. Everyone always seems to wish they were somewhere else. But not the sons of Korah. Being even in the vicinity of the presence of God was so marvelous, so wonderful that they wanted to spend all day every day in God’s presence for ever. They would trade 30 years of anything else. Of any beach, of any time in the mountains, 30 years on a cruise ship, 30 years in the most beautiful place you can imagine for a single day of guard duty, outside the courts of God. They loved their job. But it wasn’t their job was it, it wasn’t the temple. It wasn’t anything to do with where they were, it had everything to do with who was there. 

vs two jumps out at me too. My heart and flesh cry out! We as Baptists tend to be much more reserved than a lot of other denominations. People jumping around, waving flags, doing the conga down the aisles, things can get pretty crazy. Those groups can sometimes be more about the emotional experience than the rest of it. Some traditions its all about how you feel, and only a little about what the bible says. Some groups are all about the spectacle, and not about the Word of God. We as Baptists have this inclination towards distancing ourselves from that. We don’t want to go to something over produced and fake, we want to be somewhere that God’s word is preached faithfully. We want substance over production. We want to hear from God more than we care about having a funny feeling in our stomach, pizza can do that. We want to grow. 

Yet at the same time, there is room for emotions in the worship of God. I think we can emphasize one too much to our detriment. Worshipping God feels good. Its ok to raise your hands, its ok to sing along, its ok to enjoy that. God meant for us to enjoy it. But when that becomes our main focus, then we’ve lost the plot. What should our focus be on? On God. On worshipping God. 

The Westminster confession of faith says the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Any way, all of that to say, when was the last time any Baptist you knew was so excited about God that he cried out, literally a loud crying out of longing for God. 

Lets look at it from a different angle, have any of you ever been to a really good concert? Ever sang along at the concert? We were at a movie one time, and the guy behind us really had been touched by the movie, and the closing song really pushed him to new heights. He was moved, and he didn’t care who knew. He sang out loud, as loud as he could, off key, and didn’t care because this simple movie had moved him so much. The world does that sort of thing for movies, and concerts, when was the last time you were so moved by God that you wanted to shout out, or actually did shout out? Now if we allow our emotions to be in the drivers seat that’s too far. If our decisions, and even our theology is driven by emotions that’s too far. At the same time it wouldn’t hurt us to be more open with honest expressions of emotion too. If were worshipping God and it really hits you, raise your hand, sing loud! Be excited! This is even repeated psalms 66:1 says “1 Shout for joy to God, all the earth!2     Sing the glory of his name; make his praise glorious.” Ezra 3 says ““For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever toward Israel.” And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid” Luke 19 says “As he was drawing near—already on the way down the Mount of Olives—the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, “Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!” 

Psalms 47 says “To the choirmaster. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout to God with loud songs of joy!”

Isaiah 12 says “Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel.”

There are a lot of verses we could look to, but I think that’s enough. I think this is something we could work on a little bit. We have so much reason to shout. There are at least a dozen attributes, and things God does here in this passage alone. You can find more than that likely if you sit there and look for them. But just real quick, David Platt points to 12. He is the covenant keeping Lord vs1), the 2 commander of heavenly armies, 3 he’s the living God, not some dead God. A living God with an active presence. 4. Personal God – My King, My God. We can know him!
Think about that for a moment. He’s the Lord who keeps his Promises, and commands all of the heavenly hosts, heavenly armies, and hes living and active, and beside us, and he’s my God. There is a strong sense of pride there. When I was in college, one of my friends started dating another one of my friends. They ended up getting married, and have been married for 12 years as of last week. But any way, when they first started dating and made it official, they were both running around talking about the other one making a point to say “Sarah, you know, she’s MY girlfriend now”. He was proud of that fact. He felt like it was an accomplishment to even be dating her, and she was his! She was the same way, every where she went for a while, you’d hear her just drop right into the conversation “well you know so and so “my boyfriend” says”. There was pride in that. 

He was kind of a dork, and at his wedding reception, he walked around “look at this! Look who I get to call mine! She chose ME, not you guys. Me. It’s the same idea with God. The church is the bride of Christ. We are his bride, and he is OUR groom. He treasures us. He loves us so much he sent His son to die for us. Likewise Christ loved us so much, he willingly went to the Cross for us. That’s my God. 

5 he keeps his promises, 6, God is the only God. 7 elohim – the one true God, 8 Yahweh the Lord God over armies, 9 God of Jacob, 10 Faithful God. 11. Source of light and life, 12, a Sun. This is the only place in scripture that I’m aware of that equates God with the Sun. Because in the ancient contexts a lot of the pagan religions worshiped the sun. But the sun warms the earth, and encourages life in plants, the sun is necessary for people to be happy, did you know that? If you were to lock your self in a dark room, cut off from the sun, your body wouldn’t produce enough vitamin D without sunlight, and you’d quickly become depressed, because our bodies need the sun. Life requires the sun. I could keep going, there is so much in this verse. Like vs 5 says God is our strength. When we are weak, he makes up for our lack. The God of angel armies, whose by our side, who keeps his promises, who is moving and active and faithful not just to current generations but across time even back to Jacob. Who provides, and protects, and is the only true God, keeps his promises, and he is My God. We can know him personally. 

Next notice with me verse 6 the valley of Baca. This is kind of a play on words. Its an actual place, and it means “tears”. So this is a valley of tears. I know most of your stories, and I know that being human means going through these times of hardship. I know some who are listening today have been through extreme hardships. I was reminded of particular family, who I won’t name, but who 18 years ago, lost their little girl, their sister, to a brutal murder. It was an ugly thing. I was just a teenager my self, and I remember crying a pool all on my own, and I wasn’t the mother or father, I wasn’t the biological brother. I was just a friend of the family. I can’t even imagine the grief that they went through. Their precious little innocent one year old baby, brutally murdered. I think of that, when I think of valley of Baca. A valley of tears. Of weeping. We’ve all had those dark nights though, haven’t we. Maybe our little baby wasn’t murdered, but we’ve been through some things, and God saw us through all of them! 

Sometimes God uses his people to accomplish these things too. Again, I’m not going to name names, but we have one person that joins us remotely, whose had some hard times. Lost her job. Laid off due to the virus. Unemployment just ran out, she’s been a month without a check. Trying to figure out how to pay rent, and buy food, and this other person, again, someone I won’t name, hears about whats going on, and goes out and buys the first person a car full of groceries! The first person might be able to get unemployment back, but if not they are going to need help with rent. Point is God is using our tiny little church body in very real and practical ways to make a difference in this life, and in eternity. 

I’m thinking of other stories too, that aren’t mine to tell, where people are still in need of our prayers. Health concerns, and various other needs all going on right here at Christmas. People losing their loved ones, I was talking to a boy on Thursday night who told me his mom abandoned him and his siblings, and left for another state. A few months ago, this will be their first Christmas without her. And yet no matter how dark the night gets, who do we have with us, helping us? No matter how ugly, no matter how deep the tears in the valley of Baca, God is there with us, helping us. Moving on our behalf to accomplish whats best for us. We have a need over here, and God moves someone over there on our behalf. 

While we had to journey to the temple in old testament times, in the new testament we get to be the temple.
Lastly, I want to talk about is the sparrows of verse 3. 

David platt talks about this sparrow, and I think what he says brings a lot to the table here, so let me share this quote with you. he’s talking about God being omnipresent, but also being present in specific ways – like how he was present in the tabernacle, like how he was present in the temple of soloman. Any way Platt says “the Bible talks aboutGod being omnipresent, dwelling everywhereon earth and in heaven.So when you think tabernacleor temple, don’t think the only place where God dwells.Instead, think the place that God shows in the Old Testamentto dwell in a particular,powerful way among His people.And if that’s the case, this psalmist wanted to be there.He longed for communion with God in the courts of the tabernacleor the temple.He loved that place, because he longed for God’s presence.He even looks up into the structure of this place, and he sees sparrows and swallows that have set up nests there.And he says, “That is best of all.”It’s great imagery—the presence of God as the place where the humble find a home.The sparrow used throughout Scripture to describe a humble, lowly, common, seemingly worthless bird.Jesus pointed out in Matthew 10 how two of them are sold for a penny, yet this simple bird finds majestic meaning by having a house in the presence of God.It’s really a great description,when you think about it, of the people of God: humble, lowly, common people who find majestic meaning in gathering before God.Donald Grey Barnhouse, one-time pastor of Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, compared the church to sparrows like this.He said,I look down some little street and see a humble chapel, where a group of simple people worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, despised and rejected of men, even as was their Lord, and I know that this is the rich reality of spiritual truth.Here are the sparrows who find their nestatthe cross of Jesus Christ.Here is worthlessness that finds its worth because the Savior died.And I think about what we just did in our last worship gatheringfor 30-40 minutes—just common people just falling on our faces before God, crying out for His justice to be shown in a world of injustice.The presence of God is a place where the humble find a home.And where the restless find a refuge, a swallow, a fast-moving bird through the air, back and forth in different directions, wearing out anybody who tries to watch its movements.And yet, here in the presence of God, that same bird, a swallow, builds a nest and settles
Augustine, a church father, said: “Our hearts are restless until they find their rest in Thee.””

If you’re here today, and you’re a Christian, and you’re looking for rest, scripture says cast your cares upon him, because he cares for you. if you’re here and you don’t yet have a relationship with Jesus Christ, the place to start is the gospel.
