Were going to be in psalm 100 today if you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. While you’re turning there, I want to talk about our people group of the week. The Arab Yemeni of Yemen. Yemen is  a predominately muslim country, that is very closed and hostile towards Christian. There are a precious few Christians among the Yemeni people, and they are faced every day with strong persecution. To be caught being a Christian usually means death in this area of the world. The standard of living is quite low. Most of them are farmers of animals or grain, or khat – a stimulant – a drug. Which many are addicted to. It is a difficult missions field, and there are precious few believers in Jesus Christ. Pray for the missionaries working there, and for those that convert. For boldness and protection, and clarity of witness. 

I was listening to a missionary speak this past week. Her and her husband were serving in the back country of the philipines. They were missionary pilots. They described their job as grocery shopping and delivery for 12 missionary families week in and week out. All the things you would normally buy from a grocery or department store, or what have you in a given week, they would have to find it, buy it, and then fly it into some of the most remote jungle you can imagine on islands far from anything else. Their love of aviation was a natural fit for this ministry that enabled missionaries to serve uninterrupted on the front lines. Shopping for twelve families, or about 50-60 people consumed their work day. They were always flying in somewhere or flying out, or buying things that the missionaries needed. Or if one of those people had an emergency and needed to be flown out this family of two were the only way that could happen. Pilots frequently train hard for new and complicated situations for quite some time.

Any way, life went on this way year after year. They learned the local language, and culture, and were sharing the gospel in their context as well. Finally for their twentieth anniversary, they decided to take a week vacation at a resort on an adjacent muslim controlled island. 

Two nights in, someone started pounding on their door and took them captive at gun point. They were forced to march through the night to a small boat that their captors used to make them travel nearly a thousand miles to another island under muslim control. This second group was tied to osama bin laden, and al queda. They absorbed the first group, and things grew worse for these white American Christian missionaries who were now abducted and kidnapped into the heart of the organization that hates America, and Christians maybe the most on earth. 

Each day they were on forced marches, going from here to there. This group would shoot at that group, and they were marching along side them unarmed, and with guns pointed at them. No way to escape. No way forward but in faith. For years this continued. Four years they ran, and marched, and struggled every day. Then this one particular day, they were on a particularly difficult forced march in the mountains. As they were coming up this one particular ridge, the wife turned to the husband, and started to cry. She said she was thinking some things in her heart, but wasn’t quite able to get them out of her mouth. She said she was thinking: We followed God in faith. We obediently went to the philipines, we gave up our friends, and left our family, and everyone that loved us, so that God could do this to us? So we can be in fear for our lives, and abused, so that we can be uncomfortable, and sleep on the ground. So that we could be absolutely miserable in every way, and completely unsafe with no hope of rescue. So that we could come to ruin. 

Laying on the ground, trying to duck under bullets, Her husband, pulled her in close, and began to quote scripture to her from memory. He quoted psalms 100 to her which says “1 Shout for joy to the Lord, all the earth.2     Worship the Lord with gladness;    come before him with joyful songs.3 Know that the Lord is God.    It is he who made us, and we are his[a];    we are his people, the sheep of his pasture. 4 Enter his gates with thanksgiving    and his courts with praise;    give thanks to him and praise his name. 5 For the Lord is good and his love endures forever;    his faithfulness continues through all generations.
In the midst of all of the pain, and fatigue, in the midst of facing death it self in the face as the bullets flew over head he wanted her to know that God is in control even of this. That God is worthy of worship even in the midst of this, That the love of God was why they got into this in the first place, and that loving God should be their focus. 

He explained all that, and someone shoved a gun into their backs, and told them to get up and run. So they did. Her husband had barely managed to stand before he collapsed again – dead. He’d been shot through the chest. 

Subsequent to all of this the united states was able to get her back, and brought her home. 

After all of this, you know what she said? Before I lost martin I saw a woman I didn’t want to know. I was hateful woman with little faith. But suffering produced a blessing in me. At my worst, I cried out to God “won’t you change me”. Over the rest of my time in the jungle after my husband past, God taught me what true and real forgiveness is, what true love really looked like – the love that can only come from God. He taught me to find joy in the midst of struggles. He taught me to find peace to the midst of the chaos. 

I was such a mess, I didn’t even think God could actually change me. But he did. If God hadn’t taken me through this difficult time I’m not sure these things would have ever developed in my life to the extent that they have. 

Basically people shes saying God blessed her with trial, and struggle and adversity. Because in the midst of the suffering she saw God clearly. 

Makes me think of Moses, and how he climbed up that mountain. He didn’t run by Bass Pro Shop, or Rei, and get the latest climbing gear. His climb up a mountain would have been a struggle. But at the end of that struggle he was hidden in the cleft of a rock and the shadow of God’s glory passed by the place where God told him to hide, and God let him see just a tiny flicker of himself. And it changed Moses for the rest of his life. 

It changed this woman too. At the end of the interview, she was asked “knowing all that you know now about what would happen in the philipines, if you could go back in time knowing that, would you change anything?”. She said no absolutely not. Because like Paul said, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. She said the first verse of psalms 100 – the last passage her husband read to her before he passed has really left an indelible mark on her. In the ESV verse 2 says “serve the Lord with gladness”. She said it was an unlikely place to serve, but she would serve the Lord anywhere God called her to, and so here she was, and she was going to do her best WITH GOD’S help to serve him with gladness. 

I know 22-24 were tough years for a lot of us. I don’t need to say all the things that we have endured as a church body. But some of the hardest parts were watching children and loved ones struggle. Its been a few years. But what does scripture say? Serve the Lord in gladness. Serve him with Gladness when your dad has a stroke, serve him with gladness when your shoulder breaks. Serve him with gladness when your kid goes to jail, again. Serve him with gladness when it floods, you’ve heard dotties story about her year of the leg? Serve him with gladness during your year of the leg. Serve him with gladness when someone you love dies. Serve him with gladness when it seems like you don’t have any family left. Serve him with gladness on the good days and on the bad. If you haven’t had something like that that’s happened in your life, one day you will. When you do, what should you do? 

Serve him with gladness. 

I know its one thing to talk about this, and another to live it. Its one thing to say oh yeah, when I lose everything I own, or when my kid dies, I’m going to serve God with gladness, its another to live it out. The bible has a lot to say on these issues. I think we need to read some of that. I want this next passage to sort of frame the things we’ve been talking about. Before that though,  I want to hear some things you guys are proud of. Achievements, grades, education, kids, your car, your house, whatever things you’re proud of. One of mine is my education. I’ve spent a lot of years studying a lot of things in increasingly better schools. I’m pretty proud of the education God has allowed me to have. I’m proud of you guys, and the growth I see over time. I am proud of having been in my 30s when I bought the home I sleep in every night. I was proud of my book collection before idalia; and still I have a library sufficient to study most anything I need or want to. I’m proud to be your pastor. Those are the kinds of things were looking for here. Maybe you’re proud of your business. Several of you have worked hard and God has blessed you with that. Or your kids. What are you guys proud of? 

You know what Paul says? All that’s rubbish. Loss.  

Stings a little bit. Doesn’t feel right sometimes. Twenty years of formal education, and calling it a loss. Being CEO. Loss. Being a mother, or father. Loss. That company you shed blood sweat and tears for, loss. Rubbish. Fit for the garbage heap. 

If you’re like me It’s a tough pill to swallow and yet, that right there is an indicator of a problem. Maybe just maybe those things hold too high a place in your heart. Because in a billion times a billion years, what will that profits and earnings sheet mean? What will 20 years of sacrifice to earn an education mean in the scope of eternity? We have a 50 year anniversary here this morning, and that’s something to be proud of. That’s amazing, and a testimony to the grace and power of God to hold people together through all sorts of crazy circumstances and wild life changes. How amazing is that! 

But what would paul say? Open with me to philipians 3:4. We will start reading about half way through verse 4.

While you are turning there I know a missionary woman who would say we should serve him with gladness regardless of the circumstances. Serve him with gladness in our 49th year. Serve him with gladness in our 50th year. Serve him with gladness even if the one we love is captured by terrorists and held hostage, tortured and murdered. That to her the most important thing was Jesus Christ, and being obedient to him to the best of her ability regardless of where God called her to be. 

It reminds me of a story I heard about a native American man. He had been struggling with his faith. His people were animists, they believed there was a god in everything. Ever pew had its own god. And if you angered the pew god, bad things could happen. If you angered the god of your pick up truck, maybe it wouldn’t start today, unless you appeased it somehow. But any way, he was walking through the woods towards and thinking, and it occurred to him that children just don’t spring out of the ground. Parents work together to have a child. The same with puppies, they have a source. So why wouldn’t everything else have one big god that creates everything. So he prayed something like “Big god of everything, if you are out there, reveal yourself to me”. So the story goes at that moment three ships appeared on the horizon. The Nina, the pinta and the santa maria. That native man heard the gospel, went to Europe, and went to seminary so he could come back to his people and tell them about Jesus. 

It strikes me if God wants someone to know about his son, he can move heaven and earth to accomplish that. He can grab a faithful couple from America, plant them in the path of a terrorist group, and cause the least likely people I can think of to hear about Jesus Christ as their savior. 

While youre turning there, what were about to do was the kind of thing that would annoy me when I was growing up. I used to say in my heart the numbers are there for a reason, you should read the whole thing! I thought the numbers were as important as the content of the verses. It was years and years and years later that I learned the numbers, unlike the rest of scripture, were added in centuries later. The word of God is inspired, the numbers were placed there by man just to make it easier for us. God wrote God’s word, but we wrote the numbers. So you start where you start, and its ok. Just make sure you know the context. So were going to be in the second half of verse 4. In the ESV it starts with “if anyone has reason to have confidence in the flesh, I have more!. See that? That’s where we will start. 

We are basically reading pauls list of things he’s proud of. His accomplishments. His left list. I think Paul, the man who wrote most of the new testament, would have reason to boast about the things he’s done. If anyone can. But read with me what he says. 

He’s born into the right family. They had all the connections. He’s born into wealth, and priveledge. He’s as zealous as they got as represented by persecuting Christians. He was so serious about following the law, that he was able to call himself blameless and that’s apart from Christ. Can you say that? I can’t. Not apart from Christ. We know from other passages that he went to a prestigious school, he studied under one of the most prestigious Pharisees, to become a Pharisee. He was a pharisee’s Pharisee. A Pharisee was one of the forms of leadership that they had. If someone had a question of the law, they would go to a Pharisee and ask them to explain things. It may be that Paul had memorized Torah – the first five books of the old testament. He had all of these accomplishments. Yet what does he say? Vs 7 whatever gain I had before, I count it all as loss. 

He goes on to say vs 8 “ Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ 9 and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith— 10 that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, 11 that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.”

Everything is loss. His job and station in the community as a Pharisee. Loss. His education under Gamaliel, loss. His family? Loss. Everything he says “I count everything as loss”. Because of the surpassing worth of Knowing Christ Jesus as Lord. 

Think about that for a moment. If Paul considered everything in his life loss. What would Paul consider loss in your life? Is there anything that you could do that wouldn’t be considered loss? 

Our righteousness depends on faith. It leads to us knowing Christ, and the power of his resurrection. What power does his resurrection have? It is a blessing for us, then to share in the sufferings of Christ. 

Christ’s leg wasn’t shattered on the cross. That was something they often did. It brought an end to the suffering of those being put to death. It let the soldiers go home at a reasonable hour. They would take a club and break their legs, just to make sure they were really really dead. We know that from both scripture and history. With Jesus It was prophesied that it wouldn’t happen. Then we can read in scripture where it didn’t happen, and then we know from roman history that his legs weren’t broken on the cross like virtually everyone elses legs were. They didn’t need to. He was dead by the time they got to that point. He may not have had a broken leg, like dottie. But he was scourged with a cat of 9 tales. He may or may not have broken his shoulder like Kathy, but he had a crown of thorns pressed into his head as a way to mock and belittle him. He didn’t have shoulder surgery, or some of these other surgeries people have been having or are possibly facing. A friend of mine is looking at knee replacement in a few weeks Keep him in your prayers. Jesus didn’t have cancer surgery, but he did have nails hammered through his hands and feet. Denise - most people think He knew what it was to lose his earthly father. You’ll notice at the end, only his mother is present. Even thinking about the 12, Christ knows what it is to be betrayed by those he loves – betrayed by Judas Kiss. 

The suffering God allows us to go through helps us to connect with the suffering Christ endured. Ever been humiliated? Mankind tried that. They did everything they could to bring Christ low. He was mocked. He was beaten. He was wrapped in a purple robe. Which sounds like a kindness, until you think about that. After the scourging with the cat of 9 tails, his insides would be on the outside to a point. He was a blood covered open wound across most of his body. Then they put a nice robe on him, that would have maybe allowed the blood to clot, and scabs to form, that sticky drying blood attached to the robe. 

Then they ripped the robe off him. 

Whatever we have been through, whatever we are going through, Christ has been through it and worse. Whatever loss we have in life, losing any of the things on that list, losing all of the things on your list. Compared to what Christ went through is a small thing. Success comes and goes. Jobs come and go. Education comes and education goes. Any of you who have dealt with someone you love that has Alzheimer’s or who has had a stroke knows that first hand. Even our minds can let us down, can fail. 

This is something that goes against the grain of so much of what the world has to say, and even so much preaching today, but it’s the loud and clear testimony of scripture. The only thing that matters is whether or not you know Jesus Christ as your lord and savior. Because one day you will take that last breath. And when that happens you will be standing face to face with Christ. What on that list will matter staring your savior in the face?

Simply whether or not your name is written in the book of life. Do you know Jesus? Is he your savior and Lord? If so, welcome home. If not, depart from me I knew you not. Next! In a few moments, if you’ve never made Jesus your savior, if you’ve never committed your life to Christ, you’ll have a chance to do just that. In the mean time Christians, 

I’m convinced this all surpassing love of Christ is what allowed the hymnist who saw where his family died to pen the words of the song “it is well”. 

None of us start out in a place where we could look at something horrible like the death of a child, and say “my child is loss compared to knowing Christ”. But over time, as our relationship with the Lord grows deeper, as we grow closer to, and love and enjoy Christ more deeply and truly in our lives that we get to this point. Where what seems like the worst thing in the world, we realize is actually the best thing in the world. Death seems terrible. Death is hard. But death isn’t good bye. We get to see them again. When they are believers in Jesus Christ, and we are beleivers in Jesus Christ, we know how that story ends. We get to be reunited in the presence of God himself. In the presence of our savior. 

So as the praise team comes up and sings a final song. I want you to ask yourself, if something were to happen, and we all died and were standing in front of the gates of heaven, and God were to walk up to you and say “why should I let you in”. what answer would you give? If you don’t know, or if its anything other than because I have a relationship with Jesus Christ, my savior. Then please come talk to me, or greg, or dottie, or someone before you leave today. Don’t let another day go by without knowing for sure that Jesus is your savior. 

Wont you come?
