Hmong Bua in China
The majority of Hmong Bua are animists. In recent years the Hmong Bua in Jinping may have benefited from the Christian "radio revival" among the neighboring Hmong Daw, who speak a similar language. As many as 20,000 of the neighboring Hmong Daw people have turned to Christ in southern Yunnan since 1994, due to Gospel radio broadcasts. The Hmong Bua are able to understand most of the Hmong Daw language and have probably been affected also.
Ministry Obstacles
A low level of literacy will be an obstacle if the Gospel is presented only in written form.
Pray for the Followers of Christ
Pray the followers of Christ among the Hmong Bua will fellowship together, growing in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Pray they lead holy lives, and are zealous in their commitment to Christ.
Were going to be in Romans chapter 15 today. If you’ve brought your bibles and I hope you have. Were in the new testament, so open about to the middle and turn towards the end, look for Mathew, mark, luke, john, acts, and then romans. If you get to Corinthians you’ve gone too far. 

While you’re turning there I want to talk about the romans. They are unique in their letter, and in their circumstances. Lets talk about the circumstances first. At this point in time rome was the world super power. Whose a super power today? Back then, rome had a huge struggle with false Gods. They worshipped a ton of pagan deities in a ton of perverse ways. Here in America we have a bunch of different religions, some are totally unique, some are weird twists on old things. We as protestants believe that Catholicism is a weird twist on the real thing. They have wandered away from their roots in some key ways because they don’t depend upon their bible as the most important source of authority, and so because God no longer gives new revelation, they began to depend upon fallen men as their source of revelation. Any time you are depending more on man than on God you have trouble. But its not just the catholics. Even in the protestant church we have issues. People come to worship money, or the emotional experience, or security, or any other thing you can imagine that isn’t God, and it becomes ean idol. Some people worship the building. Some people worship the pastor. OR THEIR OWN COMFORT and security or PLEASURE. I think anyone who looks hard enough at their own life can find they have or have had at least for a time an idol in their life. Yet another area we today as americans can identify with the romans of Pauls day. In Pauls day paedophilia and homosexuality and beastiality, and any sexual deviation you can imagine were rampant, and out in the open. It was common knowledge that the leaders of rome were polyamorous. Sleeping with other men, women, and were even paedophilic at that point in time. Looking around today, do you see some similarities between the two? Its not exactly the same politically or culturally, but morally we are nearly as reprobate today as we were back then. Prostitution while fround upon was rampant. There were more than 32000 known prostitutes in just the capital city. In our country today the owner of the patriots Robert kraft was able to get away with having visited a prostitute with just a slap on the wrists. They had video of him breaking the law with a woman who was kept in the facility as a slave. Slavery is another thing our country has in common with Rome. In our past it was a major part of our economic engine. In our present sexual slavery is a problem increasing in prevalence. People sell their souls to get into our country to escape the problems of their homeland. They sign over their children, their daughters, their wives, and sister in hopes that whatever they have to endure, it will be better than what they were trying to escape from – war, and murder. 

I was reading about the Yazidi people. I’m not sure if you’ve heard about them before, but they are an Iraqi people group. The muslim group ISIL has been murdering, kidnapping, raping, and forcing women into slavery. They are calling it a genocide. Its almost completely unheard of, and yet more than 5000 women have been murder, and tens of thousands more missing without a trace. Every now and then they find a group of girls, and some of them are Yazidi that have been kidnapped and forced into sex slavery. One woman who was rescued by the USA was absolutely despondent. They connected her with a counselor and were trying to help her, and after a long time she finally opened up. She had been stolen away from her husband with a one year old child. They began using her as a sex slave to keep the moral of their men up, and to support their operations. At one point after having starved her for three days, they brought her in a little meat. After she ate, they told her that what she had eaten was the parts of her 1 year old little girl that ISIL troops hadn’t wanted. They made her eat her own little 1 year old girl, or at least made her think that she had. Isils actions are evil. Women like her have been exported like cattle all around the world, likely even here in the USA, and are being kept at places like Robert Kraft frequents, and where was the outrage? He’s getting a slap on the wrist, because in some circumstances wealth still has its privileges. Its disgusting, and its similar to rome was at this point in time. 

The situation in rome was terrible and getting worse. The situation in rome, morally, was a lot like the situation today in our country. 

These details make what Paul has to say all the more amazing. Rome was a cesspool of sin and depravity of every type. The moral decline of rome was part of what led to its collapse. Believe it or not things got worse from here. Yet the people Paul was writing to were different. 

Despite living in a time of excess, and arrogance, and idolatry and depravity, the people in rome that Paul was writing to had a few key differences. 

Lets read the text, Romans 15:14

Paul says I myself am satisfied about you. How many times does Paul sing anyones praises? There are at least four letters written to the church at Corinth and all four of them were filled with loving rebuke and correction for the huge amount of sin and division, and sexual sin that they had allowed were practicing in the church. Four letters! We only still have the text of two of them today. But the two that we do have reference at least two more. In fact he goes on to call the church at Corinth basically little babies. Four letters straitening out their behavior, their thinking, their theology, and their theopraxy. Or the things their theology led them to do.

I imagine its like a situation that happened with a kid that I know. Every time she turned around one day she was getting in trouble for something. She was bringing it upon her self. As people often do. It all started with homework, she had to log how much reading she had done for school. Then she was supposed to turn the reading log in. She did the reading, but she for some reason decided not to turn the log in. So then when she got home from school, she decided to lie, and told her parents that she had turned it in, knowing for a fact she hadn’t. Being good parents they checked behind her, and found her log. They asked her about it thinking it had been an oversight, and she fessed up. She was told to turn it in as is to the teacher the next day. But she went in the other room, erased half of it, and began trying to read enough 30 minute segments to fill it back in. She was caught, lied again, was told to fill it back in and turn it in the next morning, and she did fill it back in through many tears and protests. The next day she didn’t turn it in, lied about it again, and was back in the hotseat. 

Didn’t mean we loved her any less, but trouble, after trouble, after trouble, and each time we had to lovingly correct her, lovingly draw her back. By the time everything was said and done her parents had lovingly spanked her. To allow the child to continue lying like that over and over into adulthood would not be very loving, would it? Punishment is appropriate for certain things. The bible says God chastises those he loves. Paul lives this out in almost every letter that he writes he chastises this group or that group for this or that because he loves them too much to allow them to wander into error. Martin Luther as part of the protestant reformation was prone to writing letters, and theological papers trying to draw people back to scripture. But when scripture and logic were not enough he would scold people, and indeed the entirety of the catholic church. He wrote “if the antichrist were to come today, what greater evil could he do than what you have don and do daily”. Or “you are the (theological) prostitute of heretics”. Another time he said “there you are, like butter in the sunshine”. 

He is called the most pugnacious of the reformers by one of my professors. 

Yet what did Paul say to these? I am convinced of your goodness, he goes on to praise them for their knowledge and their ability to teach. 

You might say they had a holy obsession. There was a young man in Scotland a couple centuries back named Robert Murray McChenne (mc chain). What is that old saying? Something about how the brightest lights burn out the fastest? This was true of Robert. He became a pastor at the age of 23. He would only serve a few years because he would die at a mere 29 years, and yet his sermons and writings are still important today. This idea of holy obsession is a fitting description of this man. His prayers was that God send him sores and calamities enough to awaken him more deeply to God’s truths, and that he might learn holiness through the things the Lord sends. He said suffering brings out graces that cant be seen in times of health, and that we should use afflictions for God’s glory while we have them. I think my favorite quote for our passage today is this: “Remember you are God's sword, His instrument-I trust, a chosen vessel unto Him to bear His name. In great measure, according to the purity and perfection of the instrument, will be the success. It is not great talents God blesses so much as likeness to Jesus.”

This is what Paul was getting at in our verse today. In fact if you continue reading, he says warm personal things pretty much through to the end of the letter. 

Lets look at what Paul said a person who is good, is a person who is choosing not to do bad things. That sounds so straightforward, but is that easy in practice? Certainly not. We humans, even those of us who are believers in jesus Christ are sometimes swayed by shiny things off the path, like we talked about last week. Sometimes we are distracted, confused, and deceived that this way, or that way is better, when we know in our hearts what Gods way is, and we turn away from God’s way. Even the most devoted Christian sometimes has their head turned by the distractions of the world. The important thing is turning back, and putting our feet back on the path, and pointing our head towards heaven and pressing on!

Secondly he commends them for their knowledge. Knowledge is often hard won. A knowledgeable person is one who has committed to learning God. A wise pastor was speaking at chapel one time about how he had managed to stay married for almost 80 years, and he said a wise spouse is always a student of the one he loves. Learning him or her, and how they change, and what they like, and what they dislike, and the why’s behind their decisions, and motivations, and everything your simple brain can figure out about your partner. He asked what kind of relationship would you have with your partner, if you ignored their hopes, and dreams, and needs, and wants, and ambitions, and ordered them to do what you wanted in total disregard to your partner. You wouldn’t have much of a relationship would you? The same is true of our relationship with God. If you act in total disregard of God’s desires for your life, of his written word, of his ways, and who he is, then you don’t have a relationship with God. 
Thirdly Paul commends the Romans for their instructing of other believers. The great commission is in view here I believe – the great commission found in mt 28 is as follows. “19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in[a] the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”

Before they can instruct others in their knowledge of God, and in how to be good, they have to start with the gospel, then they disciple – that is teaching. 

It strikes me that in all 5 of the great commission passages, never once is there a loop hole for Christians to be able to wiggle out of this great task we’ve been given. It doesn’t say make disciples until you are old and ready to retire. It doesn’t say make disciples until work gets too busy and then back away. It doesn’t say make disciples, but if your afraid someone else will fill in for you. 

No, it says MAKE disciples. I’ve talked before about the checkbook of our lives. If you were to log how you spend your time, what would you be spending most of your life on? Family? Work?

When we love God like we should, we are so excited about the Lord that his truths seem from our pores. I have an uncle, as it happens that hates garlic. He can’t stand the smell of it, won’t eat at places that use it a lot. He hates it. All because when he was a young man he used to work for a neighbor that ate too much garlic. When the man breathed, a noxious cloud of garlic stink came out. When the man sweated, it was garlic stink that came out of his pores. When the man relieved him self in the water closet, the next person through could smell nothing but garlic. Everywhere he went, every thing he touched gained a little bit of garlic smell. All this was too much for my uncle and to this day he doesn’t eat garlic. 

Garlic has a strong smell. But the same is true of a life lived in submission to God. You know the people I’m talking about. When you’re with them you can’t help but smell the glories of heaven. You can’t help but feel the presence and LOVE of God. You can’t help but yearn for the majesty of what God has been preparing for us one day. When people like that breethe, all you can smell is the glory of God, and when they sweat, their sweat wreaks of the gospel, and everything they touch is marked by and points to God. 

What about you? Where are you at with all this? What about your choices in life? Are you choosing good? What about learning about God, are you choosing to spend time in his word, or are you choosing to live for what pleases your flesh, instead of what pleases God? what about teaching those God has put in your life, in your care about the Lord? Are you doing that? Stop the mental gymnastics of self justification right now, and ask yourself this. If Jesus were to return right now, what would he say about my efforts in these areas? 

I know I can do better. 

Can you? 

When the people in your life look at you, do they see Jesus? We all fall short in this area. Not one of us has it all together. Not one of us does it right 100% of the time. But that should be our goal. Someone once asked me if messing up meant they shouldn’t come to church. People, there isn’t one of us here that is perfect. A church is not a hotel for saints, it’s a hospital for sinners. Its respite for the weary, and love for the broken hearted, and when needed it’s a kick in the backside, its loving discipline, because God loves us too much to let us grow up to be bad people. 

But all of that starts with a relationship with God. It all starts with the gospel.
