We are going to be in Romans 1 today if you’ve brought your bibles, and I hope you have. Romans comes before acts and Corinthians, but after Mathew mark luke and John. 

While you’re turning there I’d like to talk about our people group of the week. Before I do though, I was reading this week that there are more than 17,000 people groups in the world today. How many of those 17,000 do you figure are unreached? Joshua project defines unreached as less than 2% evangelical Christian. Turns out more than 7000 people groups are either completely unengaged, or have less than 2% evangelical Christians in their population. Our people group today falls into the unreached category as there are only 1/100th of a percent of them that are believers in Jesus Christ. They are called the Balija of India. There are nearly 2 million of them, yet the believers number around 17,000. They are largely traders of things like bangles or salt or pearls. Those that aren’t are engaged in agricultural pursuits. They are pretty much all vegetarians. Being hindu that’s no surprise, the surprise is that some aren’t.  They are only permitted to marry within their caste, and unlike many castes are permitted to drink alcohol. The consumption of alcohol as a caste is usually synonymous with being part of a low caste in india. 	The Balija are hard to reach, indeed hindu’s in india in general are hard to reach because they generally only want to add Jesus to their collection of idols. But what Does God say? He says he’s a jealous God, and not to worship anything or anyone else besides him. So the Balija believe that in accepting Christ, and Rejecting Hinduism they think they have to reject their culture, history, traditions, and family as well. Which is a challenging thing for us to over come, but nothing is to great for God to over come.

who will pray for the Balija?

Ok are we ready? Lets read, romans 1:18- the end of the chapter
Lets start with 19, and 20. Can someone read just those for me? 

Thanks. This is one of those areas of scripture you have to be careful in, or you end up becoming a heretic. People have tried to use these verses to say something Paul didn’t intend about salvation. How is someone saved? We know we aren’t capable of either faith or belief on our own, those can only come from God. So when someone says something different than that, we know its not biblical. Some folks use this passage to say that anyone can be saved apart from Christ. That isn’t what is being said. This is a further affirmation that apart from God working in our hearts, we can’t figure it out on our own. It says they KNEW God because they could see his finger prints across all creation, but they didn’t acknowledge him, or honor him, or give thanks to him as God. You have to twist this passage to make it say anything different. 

But what does it mean that we can see God in his creation? This is called the anthropic principle. Most of us are familiar with the content of that, even if we don’t know the name. You’ve heard that if we were much closer to the son, the earth would burn, and water evaporate thus killing life on earth, but that if we were much further away, the earth would freeze, and life on earth would be impossible? That idea that things are fine tuned so that we can exist, and study, and know God through our observations is the anthropic principle. A fellow named William Lane Craig likes to talk about Nuclear Resonance. I’m no nuclear physicist but from what I’ve gathered it is why an MRI machine can take pictures inside of you. As you likely remember from higschool cells are made up of different parts, and one of those parts is the nucleus. When you get an MRI part of the spectrum is fired into you, which makes the nucleus of all the cells it encounters get excited and dance. That reflects some of the spectrum back at the MRI machine which then takes a picture. The speed that the nuclei resonate seems like it would be fairly unimportant. But if they were to resonate a little slower – even just a little bit you could throw away all the elements on the periodic table except helium. All it would take was for them to resonate at .8, instead of 1. Or if they were to vibrate at 1.2 instead of 1. That is if they vibrated just a little faster all of the elements on the periodic table after the first four (Hydrogen, Helium, Lithium and Berylium) would be impossible. If it were spead up by a full one percent, every bit of carbon in the universe would suddenly cease, and turn into oxygen. Mankind is a carbon based life they call us that because almost 20% of our bodies are made of carbon. They say carbon is synonymous with life because carbon has a unique feature – it has four attachment points for other molecules. So if suddenly all the carbon in existence became oxygen life as we know it would cease. 

Some things in the universe are fairly constant. You can depend on them being a certain strength – electro magnatism is one of those things. If it grew stronger by one part in a thousand our son would rip itself apart, and send whatever earth shrapnel remained at ballistic speeds probably into a black hole. 

The air we breath, the fact we have an atmosphere is influenced by a bunch of factors. The composition of the earth, our relative distance to the sun, the fact we have liquid water,  and the complicated interactions between electromagnetism, and gravity. We can’t even fully explain how all of that works together to provide the seemingly unique atmosphere we have. Even a slight change in the amount of Sunlight, distance, gravity, electromagnetism, or any of these things triggers a cascade of events that ends in life as we know it becoming impossible. Slightly less gravity, and our atmosphere is gone, our planet unshielded from the suns rays would turn into a desert. Even if we could find a way for everything to breathe, the plants would be destroyed, and within a month the animals would be dead also. Planet wide death. 

They say there are no straight lines in nature, but that’s not precisely true. You guys are familiar with the classic picture of an atom – one little ball at the center being orbited by a smaller ball? That smaller ball is an electron. Did you know that if the electrons didn’t follow the precisely same path all the time on every atom then life as we know it couldn’t possibly be. The result would be an atom with an unstable path. Whats an unstable atom produce? Two things. Radiation, and heat. If even one electron could choose between two possible paths, the result would be that everything generated too much heat for life to continue. If the alternate path for the electron cause electrons to break free, radiation would be produced. What happens when organic life is exposed to too much radiation? Ask the Japanese. Hiroshima, Nagasaki. Radiation suddenly being emitted by every atom – if everything ultimately became radioactive like uranium, what would happen? Death. Our planet would ignite like a sun. 

There is a part of an atom called a baryon. Its teeny tiny, smaller than the atom. Its name is based on the word for Heavy in Greek. They thought at the time it was one of the heavier subatomic particles. Well the discovery of the baryon has lead to the introduction of the study of “S”. If one is studying S, one is studying the amount of entropy per Baryon. Entropy in this context would mean the amount of energy that is present but inaccessible. If the ratio which is exactly 1:109 were to go up too much or down too much it would be impossible for galaxies to form. No galaxies would mean its impossible for life to form. 

This is all stuff that we – that God through science has revealed to us today. One of my sisters professors said that the more she studies science the more she believes that their must be an all powerful God that designed everything. 

Life is so fine tuned for us. For instance in the milky way galaxy. We have a unique spot in it. If we were deeper into the milky way we wouldn’t be able to use telecopes to study the universe around us. The magellanic cloud would stop us. As it is, in the southern sky at night without light pollution there is a multi-colored patch of sky, sort of pink and blue with a brownish yellow. That is the small magelanaic cloud. We have no technology even now that can pierce that veil so to speak. If we were deeper into the milky way, we would be unable to see out. We would be unable to learn about the things that lie beyond. Yet if we were further out, we would be largely unprotected from the craziness that goes on around us. Planets that have broken loose from their stars routinely pass through our galactic neighborhood, through the milky way. But because of where we are located in the milky way, we won’t wake up one morning to the news that a rogue planet is on a collision course with earth. It would have to pass much closer to hundreds of other stars and systems and maybe even black holes to get even into our solar system. But because of the way God designed our solar system we are protected by the other planets. If something that big did ever come our way, it would have to avoid thousands of planets and astroids beyond pluto in the Kuyper belt. It would have to avoid mars, the asteroid belt, it would have to avoid Jupiter, and Saturn, and Uranus and pluto, and charon, and ares, and all the other thousands of objects that orbit our sun in order to impact us. IF we weren’t right where we are, we wouldn’t be nearly so protected. Its almost like someone planned it. 

These are all things we can easily see today, but what about back then. Humans have always looked up and wondered at what was out there. In fact there was a philosopher named Empedocles. I’m sure you’ve heard of the four elements – earth, wind, fire and water? Well Empedocles is the guy that thought that up. Another guy named Heraclitus took it a step further, he thought we lived inside of a wheel, and that outside of the wheel everything was fire, as the wheel rotated, we could see places where fire – which he believed to be the primary element of the universe – had burned through. During the day, the biggest hole was the Sun, and at night we saw little holes – the stars, the moon, and so forth. 

Its in our nature, the DNA of who we are as people to sit there and marvel at things that are bigger than us, bigger than what we could accomplish. These old Greek philosophers would do like the tourists do on our beaches, and go out, and sit there and look up at the sun and try and make sense of it. What is it? Why is it? How is it? These same guys that tried to create in their mind a system without God, if they had been walking along a beach and found  watch, they would have said ahh hah! A watch maker made this, a person bought it, and has forgotten it at the beach. Yet when they looked at the stars they thought “impossible for it to have been made, must have just happened”, “must be the universe is made up of a giant bonfire, and its burning towards us day by day. 

Or the first humans to encounter the grand canyon. I am looking forward to getting to see that in a few weeks. I appreciate you guys enabling me to go. What a wonderful thing. But What did they think? “scientists” today say that it was caused by a the Colorado river. The grand canyon is so big that it could hold all of the water in all of the world and only be half full. Maybe it was caused by water. But I doubt the little tiny Colorado could have caused it. Maybe it was caused by the flood. When I was a kid I would fill a water bottle up with water and squirt it in a path in the dirt. Imagine that on scale with God. Maybe that was where God started flooding the earth? How much water would that take? I read where they discovered an underground body of water that holds more than 3 times the amount of water already on the surface of the earth, and that it would take 3x the total amount of known water on earth to cover the earth completely. That’s a lot of water, that had to be dropped somewhere. Its something I’ll have to ask God about one day, but it makes sense in my head. 

Point of all this is, there is enough information in the world around us for us to know that the world was created by an all powerful being, created by God. 

A sad amount of people choose to reject God vs 21 -22. They exchange whats obvious for whatever idol their heart loves. John Calvin wrote that the human heart is a factory for idols. I think that’s true. We may not worship idols carved from wood, but we frequently worship the idol reflected in a calm stream, or in a mirror. We feel we are enough, we can figure it out. We are smart enough, and strong enough, and powerful enough to do anything we want to do seems to be the mantra of our nation. I love our nation. I think for the most part that’s accurate. Want to put men in space? We can figure that out. We can do it. Want to build a space elevator? Seems bizarre, but its something our country is working on. I bet they don’t fix elevator music though. Want to travel to the bottom of the ocean, we have a survey team out there going to the bottom of the deepest trenches in the world. You can watch them on their live stream as they dive down to bottom. 

Want to reach God on your own? That’s something the combined military, scientific, and financial genius of our entire planet cant buy or take for you. There  is only one way to God, and that’s through Jesus Christ. Because apart from Christ mankind resembles vs 28 through the end. We are described as having “all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, 30 slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, 31 foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless.”

We like to think mankind is basically good. That people are basically good. But when you look at yourself in the mirror of scripture – apart from Christ – how do you look? Gossiped lately? Boasted? Ever been foolish? Faithless? Heartless? Ruthless? Coveted something? Been angry and harbored malice? Scripture says in Mt 5:21-22 But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother [b]without a cause shall be in danger of the judgement (for murder), and it goes on to say in danger of hell fire. 

I daresay there isn’t one of us in this room that hasn’t been angry. Yet God has a plan, and in that plan he has already factored in the entire sum of our stupidity, and failings. 

One more thing I want to share before we close with the gospel. A friend of mine wrote this, and it was inspired by another quote. I’ll share both… The original comes from a Man named Octavius Winslow. He said "So completely was (God Through) Jesus bent upon saving sinners by the sacrifice of Himself, He created the tree upon which He was to die, & nurtured from infancy the men who were to nail Him to the accursed wood."
He planned it all out, right from the beginning, precisely. He arranged every element of his life, and orchestrated every element of his death in such a way that it would defeat Sin, and death and hell and satan. My pastor friend Michael Shultz wrote this:

The men who would grow up to be the Roman soldiers who crucified Christ were once little boys. When they were little, God took care of them to make sure they safely grew up. For 30 years, God had planned and prepared for those little boys to be the men they needed to be in that moment.
The tree which would be cut down to provide Christ’s cross weathered storms and winds because God made sure it grew into maturity and strength. For a hundred or more years, God had planned and prepared for the tree upon which his son would die for that moment.
The nails in His hands and feet were forged of ore that God have overseen the formation of at the foundation of the world. For thousands of years, God had planned and prepared for that moment.
Christ died on that cross - not only at the hand of the Romans or Jews, not just at the hands of you and I but at the hand of His Father. God the Father had planned and prepared from before the foundation of the world for that moment.
Christ’s sacrifice was not a plan B or a spur of the moment event. God planned for that moment from eternity past. And He planned the moment of your conversion - and the moment of your death with equal precision and care.  “

Nothing catches him off guard. Nothing is a surprise, it all fits into the grand scope of his plan. If he pays attention to little things like the potential energy in a brachyon, or the resonance frequency of the nucleus of a cell, do you think there is anything that escapes his notice? 

Rest in the providence of our amazing God.

Our article from the Baptist faith and message today is article 2A, God the Father. 

A. God the Father
God as Father reigns with providential care over His universe, His creatures, and the flow of the stream of human history according to the purposes of His grace. He is all powerful, all knowing, all loving, and all wise. God is Father in truth to those who become children of God through faith in Jesus Christ. He is fatherly in His attitude toward all men.
Genesis 1:1; 2:7; Exodus 3:14; 6:2-3; 15:11ff.; 20:1ff.; Leviticus 22:2; Deuteronomy 6:4; 32:6; 1 Chronicles 29:10; Psalm 19:1-3; Isaiah 43:3,15; 64:8; Jeremiah 10:10; 17:13; Matthew 6:9ff.; 7:11; 23:9; 28:19; Mark 1:9-11; John 4:24; 5:26; 14:6-13; 17:1-8; Acts 1:7; Romans 8:14-15; 1 Corinthians 8:6; Galatians 4:6; Ephesians 4:6; Colossians 1:15; 1 Timothy 1:17; Hebrews 11:6; 12:9; 1 Peter 1:17; 1 John 5:7. 

Considering the lengths God went to in order to secure our pardon, its amazing to me that any of us were chosen by God in the first place. 

We were talking a bit about that on Thursday night before dinner. Sometimes people ask how is it fair or just for God to choose this one but not that one. 

Honestly, considering what we put God’s son through, what you and I put Jesus through its more amazing to me that he would choose any of us at all. It was MY sin that held Jesus there on the cross until it was finished. Now I love all of you guys, don’t get me wrong. But I want to make it personal for a moment. Imagine I came up to you and said, hey I’ve been disobedient, and I know you said if I were it would cost me my life. But I’m hoping you’d let your kid die in my place instead. If it were me, and someone asked me to kill Wyley, Violet or Lily in their place. To hook them up to an electric chair, and throw the switch to save dottie, or Willie, or Richard, or greg, or John, or Bob, or any of you. My knee jerk reaction would be no. Wyley didn’t do anything to deserve your death dottie, he’s innocent. Why would I strap wyley into an electric chair in your place? Yet God in his mercy, and grace not only chose not to spare Jesus in my place and yours, but he nurtured the tree, and the soldiers, and the iron, that he would use to spill the innocent blood of his son. So that we could be with him in glory.

Time after time after time, God gave us chances to figure it out. Not because he didn’t know we would fail, but because we didn’t know. So he set up a system of sacrifices to cover sin. But we failed at that. He sent judges, and wanted us to follow the God’ly judges he had appointed, but we failed at that. So he led us directly in the early days of the nation of israel. And yet how did that work out for them? They told God he wasn’t enough, and demanded not just a King, not God’s choice of king, but they demanded an ungodly man in Saul take God’s place in their life. Time after time God gave us chances, and we spit in his face. We worshiped idols, we rejected God. God even wiped out everyone in the world, except for one believing family, and within a generation, the world was a mess again. Not because God had some how failed, but because we couldn’t even keep a good thing going for a generation. So God created a new covenant. He paid our ransom with the one most precious to him, his son. Scripture says his only son whom he loved. Jesus life was freely poured out for those who believed. Jesus life was freely poured out for those whom he had chosen before the foundation of the world. Those whose belief he had enabled them to have in the first place. 

I’m reminded of a song – some times God just keeps bringing the right song for the moment on one after another, and this one I think fits with this discussion quite well. Have you ever heard “why me Lord” Its been covered a hundred times by I think every country music artist except maybe Dottie. I’d like to read some of the lyrics to you. 

Why me Lord? What have I ever done, To deserve even one, Of the pleasures I've known?
Tell me, Lord What did I ever do That was worth lovin' you Or the kindness you've shown?
[Chorus] Lord help me, Jesus I've wasted it so help me, JesusI know what I am
But now that I know That I've needed you so help me, Jesus
My soul's in your hand. 

Truth is if you’re here today, and have any interest in the things of the Lord, than God is working in you too. John 6:44 says “44No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.”. If you even have any interest in the things of the Lord, than God is drawing you to himself. 

Becoming a Christian doesn’t make you perfect, Christians aren’t perfect. Christians are just forgiven. Lord willing were doing better today than yesterday. 

Over time, God works in us to draw us to himself, to make us more like his beloved son. 
But all of that starts with a relationship with God. 
Gospel.
