Christ is in all the scripture says Jc Ryle In every part of both Testaments Christ is to be found — dimly and indistinctly at the beginning, more clearly and plainly in the middle, fully and completely at the end — but really and substantially everywhere.
Christ's sacrifice and death for sinners, and Christ's kingdom and future glory, are the light we must bring to bear on any book of Scripture we read. Christ's cross and Christ's crown are the clue we must hold fast — if we would find our way through Scripture difficulties. Christ is the only key which will unlock many of the dark places of the Word. Some people complain that they do not understand the Bible. And the reason is very simple. They do not use the key. To them the Bible is like the hieroglyphics in Egypt. It is a mystery, just because they do not know and employ the key.

I love finding old testament passages that point to Christ. We have looked at a bunch of those the past couple years. Jonah, Abraham, Isaac, moses, joseph, David, and on and on and on. 

But what are the roles of Christ in scripture? What is the role of man in Christ’s ministry? And what does that mean for us. 

Our scripture will be     And while you are turning there, lets talk a little bit about why Sola Christus was necessary. Martin Luther writes …The devil does not intend to allow this testimony about Christ.  He devotes all his energy to opposing it and will not desist until he has struck it down and suppressed it.  In this respect, we humans are weak and stubbornly perverse and are more likely to become attached to saints than to Christ.  Within the papacy they have preached about the service rendered by these beloved saints, that one ought to rely on their merit.”

That is to say that the catholics of that day would argue that the saints merit could facilitate ones own journey to Christ. There are a few problems with that, anyone see them? For starters, we talked about a few weeks back that we are like corpses apart from the rejuvenating work of the holy spirit. Can we do anything apart from Christ on our own? Certainly not. Can a corpse bathe it self? Ridiculous. Apart from Christ we are the corpse that trys to bathe itself. So its not specifically your journey, it’s a journey you are on that Christ initiates in you. Secondly preaching the Gospel AND anything is dangerous ground. We’ve talked about the gospel a hundred times in here, hopefully you guys could share Christ just from memory of what you’ve heard from this pulpit. So you know what scripture says about sin, and what we are due, and what Christ did to prevent us from getting our well deserved punishment. Tell me, where in scripture does paul say confess with your mouth, receive aid from the saints and believe in your heart? Certainly he never does, and there are a number of stern warnings about those who would add such things to the Gospel. Gal 1:8 for instance says “But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel other than the one we preached to you, let them be under God's curse!”. Stern and needed warning indeed. 

Luther writes “And I, too, believed and preached thus.  St. Ann was my idol, and St. Thomas my apostle.  I patterned myself substantially after them.  Others ran to St. James and strongly believed and firmly trusted that, if they conformed, they would received all they wished and hoped for.  Prayers were said to St. Barbara and St. Christopher in order to avert an early and sudden death, and there was no uncertainty here.  So completely is man by nature bent on renouncing this testimony of John the Baptist.”
Folks, I have news for you, just in case any of you were confused. St. Peter is dead. His body rotten and gone. But his soul endures forever in heaven with God. In fact, if you take a thorough look at scripture you see Peter refusing the types of attention catholics, especially in Europe shower upon him. Tables set up to light candles, to represent prayers being said to peter. People. Peter doesn’t answer your prayers. You’re praying to a stick, or a blob of wax and wick. Its no better than when people prayed to baal, also usually portrayed with wood (which makes him a stick). What can a stick do for you?! Any way. Peter in acts 10 refuses the worship of Cornelius by saying am I not also a man? Peter basically says hey, save that stuff for God. I don’t want it, I don’t merit it. I’m just a fallen man like you. Give that to Christ!

Secondarily they believed that the priest had a special relationship with God. That allowed them to be the mediator between men and God. To a point some of this is still held to today. Do you see where I’m going with this? Catholics believed in going to the priest and confessing their sin. The priest would then offer absolution of their sin if the person were to say so many hail marys, or give a tithe, or whatever other thing he picks from his list. But who is able to forgive sin? Only God & Christ’s work on the cross. Who is able to mediate between God and man? Scripture says there is only one mediator. For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus, 1 timothy 2:5. SO how can a priest mediate between God and man? How can a priest absolve sin? That’s a kings Job. 

Back in the times of Kings, they would hold “court”. People would come from far and wide to seek the kings decision on things. Remember the story of the two women fighting over the baby? Both had babies the same night, in the same house, and ones baby lived, while the others died. So the mother who lost her baby stole the other mothers baby and replaced him with her dead child. 

Solomon ultimately decided who would get to keep the baby. It is the job of a King to make the judgement about guilt and sin. Likewise today, I read that Obama in 2016 granted clemency to nearly 2000 criminals that he thought should not be in jail. Most all of them were in prison for life on drug charges, mostly large amounts of drugs with intent to sell. Most of those 2000 people are back in jail. But it’s a kingly duty to guilt or innocence. Even secular culture leaves that power to kings and presidents. Presidents may not directly preside over ever case, but any case they choose to intervene on they can grant a pardon. Further presidents appoint those who do sit on such cases. 

Finally they were trying to function as prophet too. A prophet is the mouthpiece of God. Christ specifically was the mouthpiece of God in a very specific way. Through his life and ministry he pronounced the death of sin. 

We’ve been hearing a lot about totality lately with this eclipse. They kept a countdown till totality, or told you what percent of totality you would be able to see. Any of you watch the eclipse? I did too. I pulled my camera out, and added the right filters to the right lens. I twisted nobs and pushed buttons to have it all set so that I could take pictures of the eclipse. I took about 200 pictures through clowdy overcast gloomy skies, and threw away most of them. But there was one that I really liked and saved. I’m planning to have it printed. You can even see the international space station in it. 
Unlike the totality of the eclipse which brought us darkness, the totality of Christ brought us light! Through Christ, and the ministry of Christ we are given the totality of the message of God concerning sin and salvation. But the catholic church sought to pull that job into itself. It sought to change the message of Christ, and it started by attacking the authority of scripture (which we’ve already talked about). Then it diminished the role of Christ in support of saints, and finally it attacked by saying the church administered God’s grace each week. Christ’s sacrifice they say, just isn’t enough. 

OK so the three roles of Christ are Prophet, Priest and King.
