Were going to be in Mt 13 today, Mt 13, Mt 13. We will be talking about a familiar parable, but from a slightly different angle. This is also the fifth of the five pillars of the reformation. We’ve talked about sola scriptura, sola gratia, sola fide, sola Christus, and now sola deo gloria. Or by grace alone, through faith alone, in christ alone according to the scriptures alone, for the glory of God alone. 

While you’re turning to mt 13, mt 13, mt 13, I you’ve brought your bible, and I hope you have. I want to talk about our people group of the week. 

So lets talk about sola deo gloria, or for God’s glory alone. In my bible readings this week I came across this passage and it struck me how many times I’ve heard this passage preached just a little bit off target. 
Firstly everyone is a theologian. Everyone. You may think you’re not, but if you have a position about God, or anything related to the bible, or Jesus then you’re a theologian. IF you’re a Christian, by definition you’re a theologian. Its important then for our theology to line up with scripture, and one common pitfall in interpreting this particular passage is called Pelagianism. Pelagius was a heretic. His beliefs were heterodox. That’s a good word. You’ve heard the term orthodox? I don’t mean the name of the faith tradition as in eastern orthodox, or Greek orthodox, who ironically aren’t orthodox based on the words meaning. Overly simplified Orthodox means someone who believes what the bible says. If we believe what the bible says, and I believe we do, then we are orthodox. The orthodox traditions add in other things at points, things like tradition on top of scripture, and so while they have orthodox in their name, they aren’t normally fully orthodox based on the definition of the word. With me so far? Good. 

So heterodox means not conforming to, or not believing in (again an oversimplification) what the bible says. Pellagius was heterodox because he didn’t believe some important things that scripture says on some issues of vital importance that are brushed up against here in this passage. His belief was that man can be good enough on their own to merit salvation. If you’ve heard me preach very many times you know the words of Jonathan Edwards on this subject – what does man bring to salvation? Just the sin that made it necessary. We have all the sin and none of the solution. A friend of mine in Louisiana is a master of American Indian pottery. Her family has kept Choktaw pottery alive in a world that has largely forgotten it. It takes her hours to make one just right, the right mixture of wood in the fire, and bone, and shell, and all sorts of things. The end result is an absolutely beautiful piece of pottery or a flawed piece of pottery, things made by the hand of man are never perfect. However if a person were to drop that pot on the ground, and it smashed into a number of pieces. Can that broken piece of pottery put itself back together? Can it go gather more clay, prepare it, prepare the fire, prepare the dye, the bone, and the wood, and so forth all on its own, and then can it form the clay into long thin lines to patch the old piece of pottery back together? Can it start the fire? Can it gauge the heat? Can It carefully sand the pot till its smooth, and carefully apply the layers of dye and glaze to make it so the pot is as good as knew? Of course not. The same is true of us, Romans talks about us being clay pots in the hands of the master. What can a pot do? Ephesians 2 calls us basically dead bodies, corpses. How can a corpse save it self? It can’t. Or ephesians 2:8-9 which says for its by grace you are saved, through faith, and this not of your self. Not of who? Not of yourself. Not of my self. We can’t do it on our own. There is no merit I can achieve that someone else can’t have, that makes me deserve salvation a little more, or that makes it easier or harder for God to save us. We’ve talked about this at length in the past, I’m not going to dig in too deeply to that right now. You know what scripture says on this topic. 

Yet still Pelagianism has creeped into peoples interpretation of our passage today. The idea that man can do it. That man can earn it, or that some men or women are easier to save for infinite God than others. That’s simply not true. I don’t have more faith, nor do I require more Grace from God, or more work from Christ than you do. With one act from Christ – His death on the cross for our sins, all of the sins of everyone who becomes a believer in Jesus Christ are paid for past present and future. Christ’s death was so powerful that it paid for every sin every believer had, has, and will commit across time. Kathys sins, or Kurts sins, or Greg or Cindy’s sins all required the same amount of forgiveness as I required, none of us required more or less. Think of it like this. We have each lived lives apart from Christ, and scripture says during those times our lives were devoted to sin. Even when we were trying to be good, our best efforts were filthy rags, and so were sin. Each sin, lets says each sin is written on a single page, and all those pages go into a stack. Some stacks are hundreds of pages thick, most are probably thousands or tens of thousands, maybe millions or billions of pages thick. At the end of the day, the moment you’re saved, Christ stamps “forgiven” on the top of the stack, and everything beneath that stamp, is now sealed and tossed out. Forgiven. Col 3:3 says For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 

Alright, lets read our scripture, then talk to the author. Mat 13:1-9
Ive heard this passage preached a number of times. I don’t think I have ever heard bob clark preach on it. But probably half the times I’ve heard this passage preached on, the point of the sermon was that we need to pull weeds, and break up the rocks, and tight packed soil. We need to make ourselves the deep rich soil. The other half was about sharing the gospel. Sharing the gospel is a good way to go here. But pulling our own weeds, breaking up our own rocks, loosening, and deepening and fertilizing our own soil to give ourselves nutrients… that’s troubling. 

One of the task you should undertake when reading scripture, especially a parable, is to figure out where you fit into the story. 

Like in the story of David and Goliath. Everyone wants to think they are David, and they are going to slay the giants in their life. When in truth, God is David. Were the cowardly ill equipped Israelites who refuse to fight him, because apart from Christ we can’t. Christ has already defeated our enemies for us. So we have to figure out who we are in the story. 

Normally there is only one right answer, and that’s true here still. You and I, we are the dirt. What can dirt do on its own power? Can dirt do anything on its own? It can basically just sit there. It cant walk, can’t talk, cant do anything in its own power. Can the dirt exercise control over the weeds? Certainly not. I was reading an article this week about sunflowers. I like sunflowers. My mom has grown them from time to time in her yard. She loves yellow things, and sunflowers. Any way, if you have sunflowers growing, and weeds start to come up, sunflowers are one of the few plants that can defend themselves from weeds. They, like walnut trees, pine trees, certain ferns and phragmites release chemicals into the ground that discourage weeds from growing. Phragmites go on the all out attack, they release an acid that dissolves the roots of other species of plants. So a sunflower might be able to defend itself against weeds, but can dirt? Certainly not. 

A friend of mine recently saw a tree that was nearly 900 years old cut down over by Orlando. Those big old powerful trees can break up rocks, and push through difficult soil. In fact I know of a 50 year old rubber tree that broke the foundation of a huge two story building out in trinity. Trees are tough, and can break up the soil. Are we trees? No were dirt. Can dirt do that on its own? 

Certainly not. But a farmer can. 

When I was growing hot peppers regularly We would rent a tiller, and prepare the soil before we put any plants in the ground. We’d pull up rocks, shred weeds, add peat moss, and fertilizer to my dead lifeless dirt. Then we would carefully plant seeds – not directly on the ground, we would start them in cups, then transfer them to the ground. But some crops they still will just cast the seed out onto the prepared soil, and let things grow. 

But the point is WHO does the work? I wish the dirt in my garden could weed itself. I wish the dirt in my garden could break up rocks, and unpack itself, fertilize itself, water itself. But that’s not how it works. It takes a gardener to go in there and do the work. The Gardener pulls the weeds, the gardener removes the rocks, tills the soil, adds fertilizer, and takes care of all the prerequisites for life to grow. 

Its like that for us too. Our hearts are like the dirt. We have hard patches, and shallow patches, and rocky patches, and plenty of weeds growing there. We are all unsuitable for a garden, unsuitable for life to grow, and yet God being rich in mercy, and because of his great love for us, spends lots of time preparing the soil. Tilling the soil, killing and pulling weeds up by the roots, making sure there is enough nutrients in the soil for things to grow. All before he ever plants the seeds, that lead to eternal life with Christ. 

Its nice to think about these things in terms of weeds and rocks, rather than pet sins, and idols. Its easy to think about pulling weeds up by the roots, but harder to think about what it cost Christ to pull those weeds. To break up and remove those rocks, to loosen your soil. In order for these things to happen Christ had to die on the cross. For you, and for me. 

He didn’t have to save us. He didn’t have to die. He didn’t have to be beaten, to be mocked. He didn’t have to send Christ alone, to save us.  He didn’t have to pull the weeds from our heart, he didn’t have to break up the rocks, and the tough soil. He didn’t have to clear our eyes enough that we could see enough of him to have faith – faith alone. He didn’t have to extend us grace alone, he didn’t have to provide us with His word and give us his scripture alone, and Yet he chose to do so for you and for me. 

John Owen, a preacher from a few hundred years ago, who wrote books that are still in publication today wrote of our subject that “Election is founded on divine love because it is free and undeserved. We did nothing to persuade God to choose us rather than others. Any good done to us which is altogether undeserved and which is done to promote our good, is an act of love and cannot be anything else. Any good there is in God's people is the result of election and not the reason why God chose us. The only thing that moved God to choose us was his undeserved love.”

God is the one that takes the initiative in preparing the ground. God is the one that sows the seed. God is the one nourishes the soil. God is the one that causes the sun to shine, and rain to fall in the proper proportions for God’s seed to sprout. Any seed that falls on prepared soil was by God’s providence for you. Any seed that doesn’t is still gracious. All because of his love for us which we can do nothing to deserve. 

We mentioned Pelagianism at the start. These kinds of people often respond to this passage by saying (in contradiction of Ephesian 2) that one person accepts Christ and another doesn’t because obviously, the one that turns to God is more intelligent, or more spiritual, more atuned to God by nature. And yet they fail to take into account that even if that were true who gave them their intelligence? Their spirituality? who gave them their senisitivty to such things? God did. Ultimately even in their economy of things God still is the author of salvation. For that and for many other things we should give the glory to God. If you have been saved, its because God is gracious, and gave us faith, and let his son die, and told us about it in Scripture. What a wonderful thing. 

But that’s not all that he deserves the glory for, that’s just the practical aspects. We talked about some of the attributes of God a few weeks back. How big he is, the heavens are his footstool. But its even more than that, bigger and broader and more expansive than just how big he is, how capable and powerful he is. 

Think about something for a moment – think about the most beautiful thing you’ve ever seen in this world. Don’t nudge your spouse, and I don’t mean your children either. Think about things like the grand canyon, or a beautiful mountain vista. OR arches national park, or the last American frontier – Alaska. Or for me one of those things was the time I took a train through part of the swiss alps. Absolutely beautiful. Huge mountains bursting from the ground and stretched towards the sky. As you pass each massive mountain, you cant possibly imagine how the next could be any larger, and then you see the next one, and it is bigger. Or grandfather mountain. We were there earlier this year. We sat on the traffic barriers, and looked out over a valley teeming with life, and saw a rain storm pass by in front of us. It was close enough we could smell the rain, and yet far enough away to stay dry. 

Or a hundred other things, and yet one of the puritans – John Owen wrote that these things are like something putrid and dead, compared to the all surpassing worth of God’s glory. To God alone be the glory!

RC Sproul wrote: salvation is of the Lord from beginning to end. Yes, I must believe. Yes, I must respond. Yes, I must receive Christ. But for me to say “yes” to any of those things, my heart must first be changed by the sovereign, effectual power of God the Holy Spirit. Soli Deo gloria.

What that means in practice for those of us who are believers is this: In loving the sin Christ died to abolish, we are prostituting ourselves out to the very thing Christ died to save us from. Perhaps there is something in your heart you need to repent of today. If so, when the praise team comes up, the alter is open. 

For those of you who are not yet believers, let me share with you the gospel.
