We pursue God because and only because he first put the desire to do so within us. The impulse to pursue God originates with God, but the outworking of that impulse is our following after God. 

In the next paragraph Tozer says in practice Man MUST persue God. 

I think we have to be careful here. There is this idea called “final salvation” that many have put forward in the last few years. Tozer didn’t support it. But brushes up against it, and its worth talking about. 

The normal ordo solutis or order of salvation is found in romans 8:29-30 lets read it. 

1) election/predestination (in Christ), 2) Atonement 3) gospel call 4) inward call 5) regeneration, 6) conversion (faith & repentance), 7) justification, 8) sanctification, and 9) glorification. (Rom 8:29-30).

So it starts with election, or predestination. God chooses you, then comes atonement, or your sins being paid for, then the gospel call – you talk to the evangelist and hear the gospel fully. Then in that moment you have the inward call also – Michael Horton writes “The Bible "locates unbelief in the total inability of sinners to effect their own liberation from the bondage of the will, and ... locate faith in the unconditional election, redemption, and effectual calling of the triune God alone. God gives not only sufficient grace (that is, enough grace to enable sinners to respond positively to God if they choose to do so), but efficient grace (that is, regeneration as well as faith and repentance as gifts)."
- Michael Horton The Christian Faith

Ive heard it said another way – apart from God our ears and eyes are covered in mud. At the moment of the call of God, he rinses our eyes and ears clean so we can see and hear him clearly and truly for the first time. At this point people really split hairs with how they describe what happens. Some would say in that moment everyone has a choice and some choose to follow God and some don’t. But what I believe scripture to say is that all those in whom God has begun to work will be saved. If he has cleared their eyes and unstopped their ears so they can see and hear Jesus for the very first time, then what other response could the human manage than to acknowledge their creator in truth! Said simply, those who are lost haven’t yet had the mud washed clean, and those who are believers have had this happen already. I believe everyone has from birth an emptiness inside them. It’s a hole meant to be filled by God. Lost people go around trying to fill it with all sorts of things – sex and relationships, alcohol, drugs, everyone tries to fill it with something different, but those things never fully satisfy in the long term. Only God can. So when we see and feel and know our savior for the first time, and that emptiness is filled up with God there can only be one response that we can make. Sanctification is the slow process of once saved becoming more like Christ. Ultimately glorification is when we are in heaven. 

So some people add another step in their – final salvation. Their theory seems to be that God has a sort of return window, and this is where their thinking brushes into Tozers. Because they both argue that you have to have works enough to be saved. We talked about this last week, scripture is pretty clear about how much we bring to the table. 

What does “works” mean in this context? The classic example is helping an old lady across the street. The things we do for the lord, or for the church right? Is that what saves us? Certainly not. This next bit came from an article written by focus on the family: Salvation is indeed based upon faith alone (Galatians 3:6, 7). But then faith, as it turns out, is something like a two-sided coin.

If you’ve been reading your New Testament, you will have noticed that the apostles (especially Paul) make it clear that we do not “earn” our way into heaven by doing good deeds or giving up sinful behaviors. Our only hope is to place all our confidence, faith, and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior who offered Himself up on the cross to redeem us from sin. “For by grace you have been saved through faith,” writes Paul, “and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast” (Ephesians 2:8, 9; see also John 14:7; Acts 4:12; 1 Timothy 2:5, 6).

But does this suggest that behavior doesn’t matter in the Christian life? Does it mean that believers can engage in willful sin? Are they free to forget about consequences and the deeper implications of poor personal choices? Not in the least.

“What shall we say then?” writes Paul. “Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not! How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Or do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into His death?” (Romans 6:1-3). Writing in the same vein, the apostle follows his famous declaration about grace and faith (cited above) with this important statement: “For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them” (Ephesians 2:10).

Saving faith, then, is not simply a matter of acknowledging something that you accept as true.” After all, “Even the demons believe – and tremble!” (James 2:19). The New Testament writers agree that faith is a “holistic” phenomenon. In other words, it involves the entire person, body, soul, and spirit. To believe in the biblical sense is to embrace the truth with mind, heart, and will. This means that genuine faith is expressed both through our actions (James 2:17, 18) and by the public declaration of our heartfelt beliefs: “If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation … For whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved” (Romans 10:8, 9, 13).

This concept is often illustrated with a story drawn from the exploits of the 19
th-century dare-devil Clifford Calverly. In 1892, Calverly pushed a wheelbarrow over a tightrope stretched across Niagara Falls. After performing this feat, he turned to his audience and asked, “Now that you’ve seen what I can do, do you believe I can do it again?” “Yes!”replied the crowd. “Do you think I can do it with another person in the wheelbarrow?” said Calverly. “Yes!” was the enthusiastic response. “Well, then,” said Calverly, ” who wants to climb in?” Genuine New Testament faith means getting in the wheelbarrow. It’s not just a question of standing on the sidelines and saying, “I believe.”
Where they go wrong in “final salvation” is that they argue 1) election/predestination (in Christ), 2) Atonement 3) gospel call 4) inward call 5) regeneration, 6) conversion (faith & repentance), 7) justification, 8) sanctification, and 9) glorification. (Rom 8:29-30). They argue that when you get to the 8th point, if you don’t make enough progress then one day when you stand before God, you’ll be held accountable as having been a slacker. Maybe you can do enough, or maybe not to fully realize your salvation through works. 

When as we discussed, works are an important sign of someones salvation. But works are not what saves you. In the same way the sounds a car makes are a sign that your car is running, but you cant sit there in the car and make fake car sounds and expect the car to be able to get you any where. The sound is a sign of the health of the car, not what makes the car work. 

Works are a sign of the health of a Christian, but not what makes salvation work. 

Tozer is not 100% clear that he gets that level of nuance when it comes to works. What he says is still helpful though, because we should be actively taking steps to follow God if we are truly saved. The things he describes are the natural response of creation to creator. Our response to God should naturally be joy, and gratefulness, and love.
