Arain (Muslim traditions) in Pakistan
The Arain are Muslims of Arab origin who migrated to the subcontinent with Muhammad Bin Qasim and then did not return due to the fear of persecution by the then rulers in Damascus. When the British wanted land developed in the Punjab after its annexation, Arain were brought in to cultivate lands around the cities. The Arain were favored for their "hard work, frugality and sense of discipline."
Ministry Obstacles
Pakistan, meaning "land of the pure," sees itself as a Muslim country. So the Arian families are shamed in their communities if individuals become Christians. They do not understand that following Jesus will bring a blessing to their whole community.
Outreach Ideas
Sustained, focused prayer is needed to open the hearts of Arain families to experiencing God's blessing through a movement of family-based discovery Bible studies.
We looked at the first article of the Baptist faith and message last week which discussed the Word of God. This week I want to look at the second article which discusses God. There has been so much written about God, not only in scripture but in our own statements of faith. In our own tradition every single creed and confession and statement of faith including our Baptist faith and message all have something to say about God. Who God is, is important to us because quite frankly a word is just a vessel into which we pour meaning. So when the bible says “God” it contains a rich description of a vibrant being. When other religions say “god” they fill that word with a different meaning than would our scriptures. That is how you know they serve a different God, by knowing the meaning God’s word pours into the name God, then when someone says no my God is just this or just that, then can know whether you are talking about the one true God of the bible or not. 

I need some people to look up some verses. Were going to be jumping around a little bit today, some of you may need to take two, I’ll take whatevers left we will try to get through all of them. Alright? The first one is Numbers 23:19, PS 31:6, jude 1:9, Jn 3:16

There are a whole host of groups out there that call themselves Christian, and whether they worship our God or not comes down to how they fill those words with meaning. When they say God, do they mean our God? 

Lets evaluate a couple of statements by these groups that say they worship the same god as we do. Let me know afterwards by show of hands if you think they do or do not. Alright? If you think that describes our god, raise your hand, and if not, keep it down. 

Alright, ready? 

And they cheated and deceived, and God deceived because god is the best of the cheaters and deceivers. Sura 3:54 Numbers 23:19 

What do you think, does that describe the God of the bible? 

Good, they get trickier from here. This next one is tricky if you’re not paying attention. Alright? Here we go: The ONLY true name for God is Jehovah. Did you catch that? True or not? In truth there are scores of names for God, these are just the ones God gives us in the old Testament. Many of them include the word Jehovah, but not all of them. Some maybe familiar, but I’ll give you the name and the translation. El-Elyon – God most High, El-Kanna – God the Jealous, El-Olam – Eternal God, El-Shaddai God almighty, Jehovah – Lord, Jehovah ado kal haarets – Lord of all the earth, Jehovah Bara – Creator, Jehovah Chereb – Glorious Sword, and Elohim – God of Strength or Power. Elohay Elohim – God of Gods, elohay emet – the God of truth. Read ps 31:6 for me. See where it says Lord? This is one of the areas our English translation of the underlying greek and Hebrew is week. See that word Lord, right there the Hebrew says “Elohay Emet”. The Lord that is in every conceivable way truth. English just says lord. But the truth is so much deeper than that. God is Truth. He is what did numbers 23:19 say? God’s not human that he should lie, he doesn’t change his mind. He says things, and they happen. He makes promises and fulfills them. God by his nature is capable of thinking things, and they become reality. Humans we just can’t do that can we? I know of a church that teaches you can speak things out into the universe, and then the universe – I think they mean god – gives them to you. That what you speak over a person becomes truth. But that just isn’t how it works for humans! That isn’t found in scripture, only God can do that. Not us. God can answer our prayers – he provides for us. But that’s different that speaking something out into the universe and expecting it to happen. Simply because you spoke it. 

This next one should be a little easier – Jesus used to be Michael the archangel. True or not? Look at Jude 1:9. If Jesus and Michael were the same person, why would Jesus have to invoke the Lords name? why wouldn’t he just rebuke them like he did the legion of demons  inhabiting the demoniac? Those demons he just commanded and they obeyed in fear and trembling. Why is he some how weaker now? The only answer is Michael is a lesser being than Jesus. Michael is merely an angel. Jesus is the son fo God!

Next Jesus is a created being. This heresy is as old as the second century. Any one have john 3:16 memorized in the king james version? Jesus was begotten, not made. He existed before he came to earth and lived as man, and he exists now that he is no longer a physical bodily inhabitant of earth. 

What about this one and pay attention because this one is tricky too: God exists only in three persons. Raise your hand, true, keep it down if you think its false. 

Tricky right? Your inclined to say yes there is only God the father, god the son and god the holy spirit. But when the Mormons say that they mean that they are three separate entities. They would argue God is a physical and separate individual from the son who is a physical and separate individual from God the holy spirit, who does not have a body, but who is a separate individual from God the father. If you ask them straight out they will say they only worship one God, but if you ask questions, you’ll find out they really believe in three separate, unique, individual, formerly mortal skin covered vessels of water flesh and bones. Explained that way, how many of you would still raise your hands? 

So this is important stuff! 

If there are two kids that shared the same name, you would have to depend upon an individual’s characteristics to tell one from the other. Facial structure, and shape and size and tone of voice, and actions will show one unique individual from the other. 

If we are going to worship God, we need to know the God we claim to worship. 

So lets talk about what we know about God, starting with the fact that there is only one real, living and true God. Our Baptist Faith and message says “There is one and only one living and true God. He is an intelligent, spiritual, and personal Being, the Creator, Redeemer, Preserver, and Ruler of the universe. God is infinite in holiness and all other perfections. God is all powerful and all knowing; and His perfect knowledge extends to all things, past, present, and future, including the future decisions of His free creatures. To Him we owe the highest love, reverence, and obedience. The eternal triune God reveals Himself to us as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, with distinct personal attributes, but without division of nature, essence, or being.”

I counted 37 attributes of God in just that brief paragraph, and to be fair, 37 is just scratching the surface isn’t it. I remember this one class at Trinity, we were asked to sit down, and spend an hour writing out the attributes of God. I was daunted at first that seemed like a lot, and after a few minutes I began to write, and before I knew it the hour was over. A professor I once studied under wrote a book outlining 500 attributes of God, and each of the three members of the trinity each had their own section. We could spend all morning naming attributes of God as laid out in scripture without fully plumbing the depths of just those things God has chosen to reveal to us in his word. What a glorious day it will be when we one day get to heaven and are able to meet him face to face, and spend the rest of eternity getting to know God very God. 

One more statement about God, raise your hand if its true, or if false, keep it down. God is ONLY love. 

Let me give you a little background on this; an acquaintance of mine was objecting to a post – maybe some of you have seen this – he said that the real God could only be love by his estimation, and that the god of the bible clearly has self esteem issues. This was my response to him. 

I don’t disagree that God is perfect love, but he’s a lot of other things too, perfect holiness, perfect grace, and mercy and justice. Emphasizing any one at the expense of the others cheapens God to a caricature of what God has said about himself.

If God weren’t different from us, if his view of life weren’t higher and more comprehensive than ours, if God was just like us he can’t be God. 

I think you know that we are incapable of expressing perfect love - our actions are tainted by sin - and since you brought that up - Adam was there with her, he didn’t really try to stop even and then sinned himself. 

The breakdown comes in a few key places - that God has a frail of confidence for one. I wouldn’t describe it that way at all. He created everything to be without sin and peaceful to be a reflection of God himself. Every human being and element of creation was meant to reflect God. One of those elements meant to be reflected was the ability to choose. God gave Adam and Eve that ability. Whatever they ate isn’t the point so much as the disobedience and disbelief exhibited when they did the one thing they were told not to do.

As a result every child was born knowing how to do wrong things. Kids don’t need to be taught that if they are sneaky enough they can probably get a cookie even though mom told them to wait till after dinner, or to lie to get out of trouble. These are things Adam and Eve we’re born without, but that man kind gained through sin. In the process of, the image of God imprinted on us and nature was shattered and what’s left is a dim reflection of what was. Our best love is still tainted by our own selfishness, or other sinful desires that lurk deep in our own heart. 

We were given a choice. Much of the rest of the Bible is God working out different deals with man, giving us a chance to try to try on our own to reach God. These all point towards the need for Christ. In the words of the old hymn we owed a debt we could not pay, and Christ paid a debt he did not owe. 

The story of the Bible is not one of a frail God trying to improve his own self confidence - the story of scripture is one of a God that loved us enough to pay the price his perfect justice demanded. That is the epitome of love. Greater love has no man than this; that he would lay down his life for a friend. It also shows his perfect mercy - that he would go to such extreme lengths to satisfy his justice and wrath by taking the punishment required by our sin upon himself. What a wonderful unquenchable sea of grace. If a man killed your child, it would be hard to be in the same room with the killer. Though it was our sin that required Christ’s death, God offers to make us his children. Though we murdered his son through our sin he makes us heirs to his kingdom. Yeah, God is love. But God is so much more than love. Sure God has wrath - who doesn’t – God’s is perfect, and holy, and justified. Sure Gods justice requires that holy wrath to be appeased. Sure God in his love and mercy made a way for that to happen through the vehicle of Gods unlimited unmerited Grace extended to us. 

The only people who end up in hell are those that continue to reject God and his son until their death. If one spends a lifetime actively rejecting God, it seems to me it wouldn’t be very loving of God to force them to live for eternity with the one they hate, so he allows them to have what they want - an eternity apart from him. If God is the epitome of all that is Good, where he is not is the epitome of everything God is not. 

God allows us to choose to be separate from him, he allows us to choose that eternity if we want to. But he loved us enough to give us a better way forward.

Our Baptist faith and message talks about that too: Christ is the eternal Son of God. In His incarnation as Jesus Christ He was conceived of the Holy Spirit and born of the virgin Mary. Jesus perfectly revealed and did the will of God, taking upon Himself human nature with its demands and necessities and identifying Himself completely with mankind yet without sin. He honored the divine law by His personal obedience, and in His substitutionary death on the cross He made provision for the redemption of men from sin. He was raised from the dead with a glorified body and appeared to His disciples as the person who was with them before His crucifixion. He ascended into heaven and is now exalted at the right hand of God where He is the One Mediator, fully God, fully man, in whose Person is effected the reconciliation between God and man. He will return in power and glory to judge the world and to consummate His redemptive mission. He now dwells in all believers as the living and ever present Lord.

All of that starts with a relationship with Christ though. Apart from the work of God in our hearts were not even capable of having an interest in God. I’m reminded of a video clip I saw one time of this boy maybe 6 running around with his shoes untied. Kinda sounds like me as a kid. Any way, his mom no sooner tells him to tie his shoes, than he steps on his laces and trips head long into a mud puddle. He stands up upset, and his tiny glasses absolutely covered with mud. He just stands there as the shock turns into tears, and he begins to sob holding his arms out and to the side. Completely totally muddy. 

But his mom just sighed, walked over, and wiped the mud off his glasses, and toweled the mud off him as best as she could. That little boy in that moment of shock didn’t know what to do on his own. But his mom did, and his mom loved him enough to go rescue him from the mud. Its like that for us too. We in our own efforts have turned life into a messy thing, we’ve face planted into the mud of sin, and God is the only way out. Jesus death on the cross is the only way to be clean. 

Do you know him today? 

If not as the praise team sings this last song, get my attention, or talk to me over lunch. 

Won’t you come?
